• Adoption of SENESCHAL resource identifiers within Portable Antiquities Scheme (PAS) system
• Usage of SENESCHAL web services in Archaeology Data Service backend systems to improve metadata consistency
• Usage of SENESCHAL widget user interface controls by Clwyd-Powys Archaeological Trust in experimental applications
• Flanders Heritage Agency development of 'SKOSprovider' software, utilizing SENESCHAL web services 
. Vocabulary mapping tool used by ARIADNE FP7 project based on SENESCHAL services and widgets (further developed)
The paper describing this technique is currently under review so the software has not been released yet.
The primary use of this controller will be in implementing time-slot allocations to high power demand loads on power-limited mini-grids, such as those supplied from hydro-electric generators. This technique reduces the chance of overloading the system at peak demand periods by activating power supply circuits to high-power load at pre-allocated time-slots during off-peak periods. This allows more customers to be served at lower cost to them, while increasing reliability of the mini-grid and improving the operator's Return on Investment (ROI) by keeping the system running closer to full capacity. It can also be applied to energy-limited mini-grids, such as those supplied from wind or solar generators. In this situation, the time-slots are sold at preferential rates during periods of high solar (or wind) input. This reduces reliance on batteries, allowing smaller (and cheaper) battery banks, which are put under much less stress so that they last longer. Thus blackouts and battery damage are reduced as are lifetime costs and therefore customer tariffs.
This has been published (see doi below). We are hosting an MSc student who is performing a preliminary analysis of the study data using this software as the basis of her dissertation project
It has been taken up by the CATH database for use on their website. This is a widely used resource with several thousand users per week.
none to date
This tool is being used to benchmark numerical schemes for the NERC/Met Office/STFC UK Dynamical Core project (&quot;Gung Ho&quot;).
Several publications, with more in preparation.
I am supervising a PhD student using this software and its products.
Several international groups are using our software for their research.
More reliable proteome structural annotation for use by the community.
-
n/a
n/a
The technique has been used to gain insight into a model of circadian rhythms and is under continuous development.
None as yet.
Quantitative determination of concentration of chemical components (lipids, proteins, DNA) and their spatial distribution in cells and tissues from label-free hyperspectral CARS microscopy data. The software has been made freely available, and has been utilized by several groups. It is also applicable beyond CARS data, to any dataset that requires a decomposition analysis (eg fluorescence spectra). It is becoming part of an image analysis suite embedded in an institutional image facility.
The software is being used by a number of national and international groups and our web site is currently being visited up to 100 times a day according to google analytics
-
-
First sparse direct solver to work on GPUs
Downloaded by 4 users (as of Feb 2016)
Incorporated into all our linear solvers since - best solution to numerically difficult problems.

Downloaded by 29 users as HSL_MC80.
Downloaded by &gt;2500 users as part of other packages.
Downloaded by 28 users (as of Feb 2016)
Faster layout generation which leads to accelerated turn out of devices.
The software is available under a free-software license from: http://www.met.reading.ac.uk/clouds/adept/

A journal article is in review with ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software.
The website/app is still in final development stages, but will be used as a key part of the interactive element of the 'Ministry of Sense: Hunting the Higgs' shows.
The software has been used as a research method in the following peer-reviewed publications:
78 in 2015, 
47 in 2014, 
60 in 2013.
 A full list of these publications is at http://copasi.org/Research
The libhpc-cf library provides a modern Python implementation of a general approach pioneered by Darlington, Guo et al. in their 1995 paper &quot;Functional Skeletons for Parallel Coordination&quot;. The library offers a demonstration of the differences and power of coordination forms when compared to existing workflow languages or systems. The ability to handle multiple implementations of software components and the orchestration processes used to control them is of particular use in modern heterogeneous computing environments.
This FLIMfit software has been downloaded and is in use in many locations including the UK Europe, USA and Australia. It has been used by us for FLIM/FRET high content analysis and for optical projection tomography. It has been continuously refined and updated.
The software is being used by local community as Peat Trade
The software was disseminated to industry via SICSA Industrial Proof of Concept grant (2013-2014).
None.
Our software was released as research software (rather than production software) for transparency and to help the research community build on and make use of our EPSRC funded work. We have not noticed notable impacts besides other researchers using our software and citing our work.
this is the standard for inference on gravitational-wave data particularly for coalescing binaries
The package is used extensively within our research group to produce sets of extremely conserved genomic elements for further analysis. A publication describing the package is planned for 2016.
The software enables easy analysis and visualisation of chromosomal 3D interactions from 3C-seq and 4C data.
This software allows computational neuroscience models to be easily simulated on the embarrassingly parallel hardware of modern NVidia graphics cards, vastly decreasing the cost required to improve simulation performance.
Already used to predict new insulators around the Vg1 gene (eLife paper by Torlopp et al., submitted). Further outputs are envisaged, along with other groups starting to use it. Also described in, and associated with, this publication: Khan, M.A., Soto-Jimenez, L.M., Howe, T., Streit, A., Sosinsky, A. and Stern, C.D. (2013) Computational tools and resources for prediction and analysis of gene regulatory regions in the chick genome. Genesis 51: 311-324. doi: 10.1002/dvg.22375.
This software has been used by us and collaborators to analyse data presented in our scientific publications and reports.
None yet
widely used by the text mining community as an annotation tool par excellence
(88 citations since 2012)
http://www.cru.uea.ac.uk/cru/software/crust/
This website has been used by South Bristol Youth Consortium to inform their curriculum design and planning and by a cohort of schools to support parental engagement activities. A full report on the project impact is available on the website.
The website is regularly used by programme participants and the media to find out information about what is going on in the programme.
While the software was designed for the LHCb VELO upgrade Si pixel detector beam tests, but has since been used by several other groups using the same TimePix telescope, studying different devices. The flexible modular software design allowed other groups to adapt it to their needs with minimal modification. Combined with the user-friendly GUI interface, this resulted in the wide spread adoption of this software.
Dissemination of software, visualiation and analysis method for the analysis of spatial proteomics. The software and associated techniques have been applied by other groups, both in collaboration with the authors and independently.
This library provides functions to perform an automatic selection of hydrological model configurations and visualisation tools to explore the multidimensional result space.
User Interface for the representation of RFID traceability
Downloaded from several (&gt;30) research centres worldwide
The tool offers the possibility to integrate neuroimaging and genomic data
The tool has been integrated into the Workspace for Collaborative Editing (http://www.itsee.birmingham.ac.uk/ote/) and the NTVMR (http://ntvmr.uni-muenster.de/manuscript-workspace/). In the latter interface, it is being used by a US-based project to transcribe the manuscripts of 1 Timothy (http://ntvmr.uni-muenster.de/web/gsi-greek-paul-project/welcome). It is also currently being adapted for use by a project editing Zoroastrian texts in London and Salamanca and a Coptic Old Testament project in G&ouml;ttingen.
The bridging of an important gap between frontier mathematical advances (crossing numerical methods and multi-resolution analysis) and what is current emerging in hydraulic modelling.
Reduction in manual resource required when large batches for files need converting
Existing software tools for designing crystallographic experiments are often closed-source and are limited to standard experiments. Scientists are left with great challenges to exploit new instrument technology for non-standard data collections like photo&shy;crystallography. The tools presented here have been used to create experiment strategies in-house and at Diamond Light Source, by Oxford researchers and by beamline staff. The software has also been used to support developments of a time-resolved crystallography instrument at University of Nancy.
This documentation is for the technology behind the Hub-of-all-Things (HAT) that allows individuals to flatten, contextualise, bundle and exchange all types of personal data. All this tech exist within a trust framework of a personal data exchange ecosystem, hence allowing permitted exchange of personal data with other individuals or HAT-enabled organisations. These have been released to the wider public and made freely available, to reflect the nature of the project's public funding.
The HAT Hyperdata Browser forms part of the technology behind the Hub-of-all-Things (HAT) that allows individuals to flatten, contextualise, bundle and exchange all types of personal data. All this tech exist within a trust framework of a personal data exchange ecosystem, hence allowing permitted exchange of personal data with other individuals or HAT-enabled organisations. These have been released to the wider public and made freely available, to reflect the nature of the project's public funding.
This software has enabled accurate calculations of radiation cooling rates in large scale radiation hydrodynamics and MHD simulations of high energy density plasmas. It also enables the generation of synthetic experimental X-ray spectra to be generated in post-processing calculations as well as the generation of detailed opacity tables for use in radiation transport models.
Research publications and analyses (some in collaboration with other groups in the field) are in progress
TBC later.
Models of a range of industrial and academic culture systems that have defined further experimental work and identified mechanistic behaviours and operational risks. Outputs in preparation.
Increasing commitment of funders to the idea of RRI will lead to growing demand by ICT research communities to understand ideas and principles and comply with evolving standards. The Observatory could be a focal point of the community and shape emerging policies and thereby the demand and need for its services.
Universities participating in the Student Switch-Off Campaign are having to install automatic meter readings via SMART meters. Whilst there is a only a sample of EU Universities at present this still equates to: 
8% average reduction of electricity usage, compared to baseline year, across
participating dormitories
• 4.23GWh electricity-savings (1,902CO2e / 364toe) achieved, compared to baseline
year, across participating dormitories, over both academic years
• 3,773 students (15% of those in dormitories) living in participating dormitories
recruited as energy champions each academic year. 7,547 students (30%) engage with
the project each academic year
• Quantifiable behaviour change delivered in students, with 10% swings on target
behaviours (e.g. students switching off the lights when not in use) between surveys. 90%
of students state they have carried forward the energy-saving habits learnt in the project
into private accommodation once they have left dormitories
• 2.85GWh estimated energy savings (1,284tCO2e/year / 245 toe) from students
carrying forward their energy-saving habits into private accommodation
• Project continues to expand on a self-funded basis, reaching 257,805 students in six
European countries by Sept 2016
Scratchpads have a growing user base of more than 7000 researchers, distributed in 820 different scientific communities. Scratchpads are today considered the 'industry leader' in biodiversity-related virtual research environments. Within NHM Scratchpads play a key role in supporting NHM researchers and curators in organising and opening-up biodiversity data to the world. More than 80 NHM staff have been actively using Scratchpads by either maintaining (e.g. http://solanaceaesource.org/, http://mosquito-taxonomic-inventory.info/, http://wallaceletters.info/content/homepage, http://wallacefund.info/, http://phthiraptera.info, http://sciaroidea.info/, http://bio.acousti.ca) or participating in other community scratchpad sites.
N/A: This software has just been released online, and the public announcement is pending.
The algorithm is still under development since the rules for defining G-quadruplex structure are still under investigation. However, it has been passed to colleagues that are also working on the development of these rules.
The software has yet to be demonstrated to the public, though it has been discussed on the leJOS forums for the operating system being used on the robots.
The product has been taken up and further developed in a US NSF grant,
a. Definition of minimum outputs from IBM Data Collector for Survey Agencies IPSOS-MORI, Natcen for supply of machine readable outputs of data collection.
b. Endorsement for profile from a range of international organisations, including ICPSR, Australian Data Archive, GESIS - Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences, and Survey Research Operations, Survey Research Center, Institute for Social Research 
(http://www.ddialliance.org/survey-metadata-reusability-and-exchange-a-call-to-action-for-questionnaire-documentation)
c. Adoption of profile by ONS for the development of the Questionnaire Capture system
The app has been demonstrated at public engagement events and has been made available on the Apple iOS App Store so it can be installed by members of the public on their own devices and used to explore and add content.
The tool is still in development but it has triggered a wider interest in the argumentation community with a number of researchers enquiring about further developments.
Researcher and practitioners repeatedly contact us at events and conferences. Our tool was used to find security vulnerabilities in Password Manager applications.
Discovered 2 bugs in Mozilla Firefox browser.
Helping Mozilla Firefox security patch developer.
Submitted paper to WWW'15 conference.
Discussions about involvement in designing PHP Language standard with manager from Facebook Inc.
We also attracted students to develop further tools based on the PHP interpreter (taint analysis tool, Eclipse debugger, compiler).
The RA altimeter repeat track processor has been developed in to a fully operational system at CPOM using an adaption of the surface plane fit algorithm (McMillan et al, 2014), with support for ERS-1, ERS-2 REAPER, ENVISAT GDR, CryoSat L2i mission data sets and Antarctic and Greenland ice sheet basins. The processor is currently being used to support CPOM ice sheet and ice shelf research, and ESA projects such as Antarctic Ice Sheets CCI. In 2016 it will also be adapted to support Sentinel-3a data products and the Sentinel-3 commissioning campaign as part of the Sentinel-3 MPC.
The first dynamic simulations including regulatory mechanisms and a genome scale metabolic network in human cell, using bile acid homeostasis in human hepatocytes.
This is a mobile augmented reality application developed to raise awareness of the research carried out between Lancaster University and the village of Wray in Lancashire during the last 10 years. The mobile application offers a digital enhancement to the annual Wray scarecrow festival: allowing visitors to select past scarecrow festivals to experience and then display scarecrow images from that year at the relevant locations as they move through the village, thus, allowing them to traverse both time and space.
This package is currently the object of an invited publication in Molecular Ecology Resource, to be submitted in 2016
Since methods modelling bacterial recombination generally focus on only one of these two modes of recombination, the possibility to simulate both allows for a general and fair benchmarking.
Matlab code to collect real time data from Contec Pulse Oximeters (Heart rate monitor).
dx.doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16277
-
No actual Impacts realised to date
two publications:

Soroldoni D, J?rg DJ, Morelli LG, Richmond DL, Schindelin J, J?licher F, Oates, AC. A Doppler Effect in Embryonic Pattern Formation. Science. 2014 July 11;345, 222-225

Webb AB, Soroldoni D, Oswald A, Schindelin J, and Oates AC. Generation of dispersed presomitic mesoderm cell cultures for imaging of the zebrafish segmentation clock in single cells. Journal of Visual Experimentation. 2014 (89), e50307, doi:10.3791/50307.
Recording of hours was identified as an essential first step to the management of hours. The App went live in May 2013 and its use was demonstrated at each subsequent Workshop. It has been heavily advertised within the PFEW and at the Annual Conference. Long hours of work are not confined to the police service, although they are perhaps more readily recognisable there. Neither is the inadequacy of the recording of working hours confined to police inspectors. Importantly, the App is available to anyone with a smart phone. It was advertised at the Cardiff University Research Fair 8th May 2014 and in a Cardiff University Well being blog November 2014.
Firedrake is a principle test platform for the development of Gung Ho, the future UK Met Office dynamical core.
Enhanced modelling capability
Ability to provide real time real condition maritime FSR demonstrator.
Publications. Further funding. Preliminary industrial adoption.
First truly accessible Digital Audio Workstation prototype.
Users can apply the new functions for evaluating the quality of a clustering and specific clusters in flexible ways, depending on the aims of the data analysis.
none as yet
This software enables users to review the outputs of the object tracking of the CppMT tool by eye, to determine its accuracy. It has been used to validate the results of behavioural coding using CppMT (IDInteraction Version) by eye (see http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892483), as a precursor to quantitative analysis.
Impacts are: (i) contribution to the development of a specification for a Scheme Authority concerning the trading of personal data under the Digital Catapult Trust Framework Initiative.
Used (and designed with) local group of people in the UK

Used in teaching in HCI masters class at University of Bath

Used in teaching in University of Oulu
Research using the eViz energy diary led to a poster presentation at the Biennial Conference on Environmental Psychology 2013
Written to analyse data for the ionic liquid [EMIM][Tf2N] on Au(110) and produce a structural model. Reported in M. Buckley PhD thesis.
Provision of informative access to the emerging genome of bread wheat, a critically important polyploid crop species.
Basis for our paper Bruno et al (2015, Neuron) on deconstructing the locomotion circuit of the sea-slug Aplysia
In my group, applications to recordings from:
Developing rat striatum
Motor cortex of parkinsonian mice
Locomotion circuit of Aplysia
Prefrontal cortex of rats navigating a maze

Applications by other groups include:
Decoding of motor cortical control of arm movement
Thus far, 936 downloads worldwide since release. 15% USA; 15%UK; 12%China; 7%India; 7%Germany; 4%Russia; 4%Spain; 36%RestOfWorld.
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
Impact description is provided in the project description 'On The Precipice'
software presented to Dstl 
published journal paper on it
SPIERS has been used in many pieces of scientific research and is in use in many labs around the world. We do not have tracking data on it's usage.
Simulations results (using the software code) demonstrate the potential of the developed neuro-biologically inspired autonomous vehicle control methods and models, to simultaneously and more effectively track (in relation to conventional control methods):
(1) desired longitudinal and lateral displacements, 
(2) and vehicle speed changes, 
(3) in addition to achieving the desired speed of response, whilst penalising excessive control actions - with significant potential implications for both fuel and emission economy.
The project software, which has been made publicly available to maximise impact, is serving as a benchmark and an open-source testbed for research and development of both next generation assisted-driving and safety warning systems, as well as future safe, efficient and smart autonomous vehicle models requiring integrative multi-modal cognitive control technology. In addition, the simulation and cognitive control of realistic, validated car-like rover models (implemented in the project software) are serving as benchmarks models for research and development of next generation, low-cost, autonomous rover vehicle control systems for planetary missions.
Many groups use this software
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
Significant commercialisation.
The code is described in an Understanding Society Working Paper. It is being made freely available to potential users. We have had 8 requests so far. A revised version of the working paper describing the command and an application to Understanding Society data has been accepted for publication in the Stata Journal, and we expect its use to grow considerably when that article appears.
Guild engagement with the history
Has been used in teaching automated stock-market trading to c. 100 masters-level students every year 2012/2013/2014, so around 300 students to dat.
15 publications to date
The community will be able to use this within SASSIE to compute scattering curves
Improved benchmarking of motif prediction by consolidation/improvement of motif definitions within benchmarking data.
Implementation of control techniques and energy management schemes within DC microgrids.
The tool is being released in early 2016 with the Adaptive Architecture Framework as the base information to be published.
The declarative style of the YAML metadata used to configure the library provides a simplified means for developers and end-user scientists and researchers to specify their jobs and switch much more easily between cluster and cloud platforms. For example, where users wish to undertake some jobs on a local cluster platform and take advantage of cloud infrastructure for other aspects of their workload, the libhpc deployer provides support for straightforwardly selecting a different target platform on a per-job basis.
Estimates from the software reported in the 2013 PHE annual HIV report, and will be reported in the 2014 report, due to be released in Nov 2014. Software has since been shared (upon request) with Dr Sally Blower, UCLA and Dr Stefan Ma, Ministry of Health, Singapore.
Available for use by users of the Octopus facility, including users specifically requiring this software for analysis of data collected elsewhere. Manuscript in preparation.
Widely used internationally, e.g. in Planck results
OP2 is being adopted by Rolls Royce to support GPU and multicore acceleration of their flagship HYDRA fluid dynamics software.

PyOP2, which is developed from OP2's concepts, is a key abstraction in the Firedrake Project (www.firedrakeproject.org).
Versions 1, 2 &amp;amp; 3 have lead to follow-on grants from EPSRC, U-Man KTA and collaborations with companies such as a Leading Motorsport Company, National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL)
Impacts are awaiting code release.
The software web page has over 4500 hits. The precise impacts are hard to establish, however.
While it is too early to gather precise impact data we are pleased that the main paper describing the BEM++ library, which has appeared in Transactions on Mathematical Software in 2015, has been cited 40 times (Google Scholar citations) in its first year, which is a very high number for Mathematics. Also, we regularly observe now other groups at conferences presenting results based on BEM++. As time progresses the citation count of the main BEM++ paper will be some measure on how widely the software continues to be used.
16 + citations of Ecology Letters paper documenting the tool and it's use.
n/a
The possible use of this product with colleagues in Malaysia is being investigated.
It has been released on CRAN
The tool has been tested by medical students at the Southern Medical University, China, with some promise. We plan further development and testing. It has also been presented at CIMA-14 Workshop, 4th International Workshop on Combinations of Intelligent Methods and Applications
grapharg is a component of the medical decision support system www.justimed.com. It has been presented at a workshop (TAFA2013)
ERSEM is the ecosystem model component of the UKMO run operational forecast system for the NW European shelf.
This software has been created based on discussions within the research community, bringing together experts from many universities and institutions. This process has engaged researchers in our network, but also has made many to think for the first time on how to design software that will be used by many and will be co-developed by a team.
 
As this is a prototype, further impact will be for the future.
Supports children with ASD specifically but can support other groups.
Designed by people with ASD.
Unique features, e.g. nature of support.
Open Learner Model.
None as yet
Ability to analyse MCS data
The code allows the assessment of the impact of assimilating different 'observable' variables such as underwater light absorption, macronutrients or chlorophyl-a in the evolution of pelagic and benthic ecosystems. It supports implementations of 3D data assimilation algorithms.
The new formulation substantially improves the representation of the nitrogen cycle in ERSEM
A highly accessed software on the BMC website. Top 10 accessed software paper in the month following publication.
Promotes transparency of methods - aided publication of research papers which use the methodology, eg Brage et al, PLOS ONE 2015
A PhD student, Miss Zuochao, is using this softwere for her PhD thesis. Some results were used in published journal papers and new proposals.
Publications and usage in research field
There has been increased engagement on social media (Blue-Green Cities twitter feed and LinkedIn Group) since the Blue-Green Cities website was released. The website also provides an outlet for BGC outputs (conference and journal papers) to be downloaded, thus enabling the research findings to be disseminated to a wider community. Requests for information on the project have also directly come through the website.
A large (approx 100) number of international users are now using the code.
HTK 3.5 has been used as a platform to develop various types of speech technology research at Cambridge, building on developments over many years to focus on the use of deep neural network acoustic models and recurrent neural network language models.

A particular outcome has been the development of the Cambridge University systems for the 2015 ARSU multi-genre broadcast (MGB) challenge. This required the processing of more than 1600 hours of BBC TV audio data and developing systems for transcription, subtitle alignment and diarisation. This was embodied in 4 tasks in the MGB challenge, and Cambridge University systems based on HTK 3.5 had the best performance for all these tasks.

Many HTK users have downloaded HTK 3.5 and are actively using it to develop both research and commercial systems.
The software was used to demonstrate the first time mechanistic links between phenomena associated with cognition and disease, and lower level cellular and circuit mechanisms.
Widely used in academia and industry. The NMR functionality is widely used in the pharmaceutical industry.
The website was a prime way to advertise our project, raising the number of study participants, to share information, and it increased interest in our conference event (see Engagement Activities). It assisted, therefore, in the networking activities of: professional practitioners in this arena (e.g. teachers from mainstream and special schools, and professional musicians); academics and students interested in this subject; members of charities vested in this field; and blind and partially-sighted musicians and musical learners worldwide.
The package is used as part of the LSHTM short course &quot;Statistical Analysis of Missing Data with Multiple Imputation and Inverse Probability Weighting&quot;. I believe it is also planned to be used in a similar course on missing data run by the MRC Biostatistics Unit in Cambridge.
The program is being used in teaching materials for Masters students at the London School of Hygiene &amp;amp; Tropical Medicine, giving an easy to use method for allowing for the effects of misclassification in a binary covariate in logistic regression models.
All code developed for the Picturing the Social project was added to Webometric Analyst and the core features documented for other researchers. This strategy of combining programs from different research projects into one tool is designed to ensure that they are not forgotten but are automatically maintained and upgraded along with the software.
none
none
Software integrated into the ourSpaces VRE used by a sizeable number of researchers.
Not known at this time.
The SPRUCE uncertainty quantification modelling and simulation software will be used extensively in the Rolls-Royce submarine programme and is a crucial part of the move towards Best Estimate Plus Uncertainty (BEPU) within the naval nuclear propulsion programme. This will improve the design, performance and safety of naval nuclear propulsion plants and submarines..
Over 50 installs to date.
Open Source being made available soon.
Provision of new software tools for the neuroscience community.
Published in Bioinformatics (Bioinformatics. 2014 Mar 15;30(6):838-45. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt610)
new collaborations with various physical chemistry groups; concrete impacts likely to be realised over the coming months.
not aware of any impacts yet
n/a yet.
Tools for real-time 3D reconstruction from videos based on ORB-SLAM system
The paper that reported this tool has already attracted a large number of citations, but since the tall was anything available for a year, we are not yet aware those were using it (we would only become aware of its use when it appears as an explicit mention in a subsequent research paper)
The Picasevo app is available on the itunes store and so is accessible for anyone with an iphone/ipad. It gives the general public some insight and intuition into the concept of Pareto optimality and is a playful way of presenting research to the general public.
Code is now in production phase with science output forthcoming by the beginning of 2015.
ROTORSIM is also being used as one of the new benchmarks in the FP7 Mont Blanc European Exascale research project, making it one of the first applications to run at large scale on an ARM-based supercomputer.

ROTORSIM is one of the few applications to run at extremely large scale on the Titan supercomputer at Oak Ridge national laboratory in the USA.

ROTORSIM also helped form the basis of the first phase of the Intel Parallel Computing Center at the University of Bristol.
Preliminary reconstructions of Lassa virus glycoprotein spike at 20 A resolution. Several published papers, including: 

Maurer et al. (2013). The structure of herpesvirus fusion glycoprotein B-bilayer complex reveals the protein-membrane and lateral protein-protein interaction. Structure. 6;21(8):1396-405.

Bowden et al. (2013). Orthobunyavirus ultrastructure and the curious tripodal glycoprotein spike. PLoS pathogens, 9(5), e1003374.
too early
Pipeline for re-annotating genomes with proteomics data. Being implemented to connect two major public databases - EBI Ensembl and EBI PRIDE.
Publication in Nature Methods http://www.nature.com/nmeth/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nmeth.3103.html and featured in their research highlights http://blogs.nature.com/methagora/2014/09/microbial-sequencing-at-nature-methods.html
--&gt;More than 500 publications so far for work based on Incompact3d
--&gt;100 active users worldwide 
--&gt;PhD students in Sheffield, Manchester, Southampton and Imperial College with research project based on Incompact3d
With user's permission, details of the analysis are retained, providing data for further optimization of analyses by machine-learning.
The software has been downloaded over 150 times and has 64 registered users.
It is already being used in planning exercises by Buglife, notably to help to prioritise the 'B-lines' project in Northumberland and Kent.
It has been/is being trialled by Northumberland National Park, Churnet Valley Nature Improvement Area, Scottish Natural Heritage, Scottish Wildlife Trust, Natural England and Natural Resources Wales.
Natural Resources Wales have made Condatis a part of their 2015/16 Business Plan.
Natural England have discussed the use of Condatis as one of the analytical tools in their Habitat Fragmentation Theme Plan for Natura 2000 sites.
500+ citations, including many from the pharma/biotech sectors.
Distribution as part of the CCP4 software suite to 100 commercial licensees.
Used to encourage beekeepers and farmers to examine how useful the landscape is for bee foraging. Results can be used as data input files in the BEEHAVE honeybee colony dynamics model.
The website was launched in July 2015 and to date (December 2015) has had 3,500 unique visitors and 10,000 page views. We have also attracted a lot of attention via social media. Sir Ken Robinson -- who has 300k followers -- recently mentioned 'Stolen Lives' in a tweet and we have already seen increased traffic as a result. Our Facebook site, meanwhile, has 500 page likes/followers. Since the launch of the site we have also had increasing numbers of requests to present the resource, both here and overseas (e.g. Germany, the USA).
Many research group use vertex model in their studies of various aspects of tissue developmet and our software implementation will be of great interest to these groups.
The system was made available to students taking a postgraduate Open University module in 2014. We found a significant positive relationship between the marks that were awarded for an assignment and the number of drafts of the assignment that the students had submitted to the system. As a group, this cohort of students also obtained significantly higher grades than the previous cohort who had not had access to the system.
Just put online recently.
na
Even though this platform has only been available since 2015, it is already used by over 10 groups in the UK and overseas.
Apache is the most well known and respected of the Open Source Software Foundations. 
https://taverna.incubator.apache.org/
No notable impact.
The NPCT prototype has already received considerable interest from transport planners in many local authorities and combined authorities. 
As we are working with DfT it will be WebTAG compliant and used by local authorities in compiling business cases for investment.
Illustrative quotes on the tool include:

'This is a useful tool to help identify potential cycle routes for future (predicted) trips' Chris Hughes, Capita North Tyneside

 'As a densely populated, heavily congested city with considerable topographical challenges, outputs around e-bikes are very exciting in demonstrating the level of impact that policy change would have on cycle levels in Bath.' (Jessica Fox-Taylor, Bath and North East Somerset'

'We can use this to support the business case for cycle network improvements', Richard Smith, Cov City Council

 'The tool can be used to encourage the Local Enterprise Partnership to focus on cycling and walking capital schemes for investment and to provide evidence to members/public and funders on potential impacts.' Bethan Edwards, Cheshire West and Cheshire Council.
This is a potentially valuable data-driven tool for reservoir engineers to utilise alongside geological model simulations.
Software and database developed in Java can now use a native library to read and write mathematical models encoded in SBML, the most used format in systems biology.
The BayesTraits V2 (Beta) allow effect analysis of data sets orders of magnitude larger than the previous version. Enabling analysis of datasets generated form next generation sequencing methods, of tens of thousands of taxa.
First PSI standards supporting proteomics software
Provided to 4 research groups on request.
The software has been released under GPL on the machine learning open source software forum (mloss.org).
This app has been used extensively by visitors to Wolverhampton and by the Wolverhampton Civic and Historical Society to promote Women's issues and local heritage in the city.
The software has generated a great deal of interest in the microsimulation community with several projects making use of it including an extension of the ESRCs CeLSIUS grant and an ESRC award called 'Changing Commutes? Exploring the uptake of cycling to work through an agent-based model focusing on social interactions and social norms'.
Not aware of any impacts
The IMAP is currently being used by over 130 cochlear implant users, hearing aid users and professionals. The findings from a randomised, crossover trial of the prototype with adult cochlear implant users undertaken in 2012 indicate that the IMAP is beneficial for music perception and in particular, instrument recognition.
The software has only recently been developed and is still be actively tested.
Many researchers have downloaded and started to use this software for their analysis
Convened an expert user panel to help test, revise and extend the ZO?N framework and interface.
At the moment, the software is not publicly available, but it is used by members of the project for research purposes.
This website allow researchers to rapidly identify the expression pattern of their gene(s) of interest. It also allows comparison of homoeologue expression patterns.
A manuscript has been published. Borrill et al., expVIP: a customisable RNA-seq data analysis and visualisation platform, Plant Physiology 2016
NILMTK v0.2 includes a combinatorial optimisation NILM algorithm. FHMM and Hart's 1985 algorithms coming soon to v0.2. More algorithms in the pipeline!

Publications

1.Nipun Batra, Jack Kelly, Oliver Parson, Haimonti Dutta, William Knottenbelt, Alex Rogers, Amarjeet Singh, Mani Srivastava. NILMTK: An Open Source Toolkit for Non-intrusive Load Monitoring. In: 5th International Conference on Future Energy Systems (ACM e-Energy), Cambridge, UK. 2014. DOI:10.1145/2602044.2602051 arXiv:1404.3878 [slides] [bib]
2.Nipun Batra, Jack Kelly, Oliver Parson, Haimonti Dutta, William Knottenbelt, Alex Rogers, Amarjeet Singh, Mani Srivastava. NILMTK: An Open Source Toolkit for Non-intrusive Load Monitoring&quot;. In: NILM Workshop, Austin, US. 2014 [pdf] [Presented as a 30-minute IPython demo of NILMTK v0.1 and a poster.] 
3.Jack Kelly, Nipun Batra, Oliver Parson, Haimonti Dutta, William Knottenbelt, Alex Rogers, Amarjeet Singh, Mani Srivastava. Demo Abstract: NILMTK v0.2: A Non-intrusive Load Monitoring Toolkit for Large Scale Data Sets. In the first ACM Workshop On Embedded Systems For Energy-Efficient Buildings, 2014. DOI:10.1145/2674061.2675024. arXiv:1409.5908 [Won best demo award] [bib] [Presented as an IPython demo of v0.2 and a poster]
This collection of scripts streamlines the implementation of FVCOM model in new domains reducing the time needed to generate typical or default input files. The use of a standard set of script minimises the potential errors in setting up FVCOM. Furthermore, it provides a traceable history of the sources of model input data used in the implementation and complements the FVCOM manual with more detailed information on the format and options to force FVCOM. 
The collection also includes scripts to extract, analyse and plot FVCOM model results that allows quick quality checks to be performed on the model results. Overall, the toolbox has enabled users across the world to reduce the time involved in setting up FVCOM allowing more time for interpretation of the results.
Implementation of convolutional LSTM, extending an existing public library for recurrent neural networks; code available online
CSIC in-house software for plotting colour map and video of temperature data
GULLEM is still in development, so impacts are yet to come. However, it is at present fully functional. 
The software is being used to simulate the development of the Mekong River system over the last million years, especially in response to sea level fluctuations.

Several well received presentations have been given at major conferences, and 3 papers are in preparation.
See the published papers
interest from potential users after dissemination activities.
The integration of cardiovascular and pulmonary models has taken high-fidelity, multi-organ simulation to a new level. Multiple high-impact publications will follow.
This software can in a few minutes gauge the manufacturing process of any bend tube structure, even in the case of multiple bends. It is a very useful tool for industrial applications. Also it is marketable as tables of possible bends and pipe thickness can be computed as a feasibility table as function of the bending process.
This software can optimize a structure by taking the effects of manufacturing tolerances into consideration whilst making the optimisation process automatic (no user intervention).
SPCAM-KPP is being used to investigate the role of atmosphere-ocean interactions in the Madden-Julian oscillation (MJO), as well as other modes of tropical and extra-tropical sub-seasonal variability. SPCAM-KPP allows the effects of air-sea interactions to be cleanly separated from any changes in the basic state, as well as enabling sensitivity experiments to determine the impacts of air-sea interactions in particular ocean basins (e.g., the Indian Ocean, the Pacific Ocean). SPCAM-KPP is being used by scientists at the University of Reading, as well as at Colorado State University. The model underpins a collaborative research proposal between investigators at these two universities, submitted to the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
Improves outbreak analysis by allowing multiple data sources, visualisation and statistical modelling in one platform.
Front door of service so generates many contacts and requests for further information.
The map provides a tailored view into the history of Liverpool, looking specifically at local food. It has increased users knowledge of how widespread food production was and helped to augment the account of Liverpool as a 'port city' with evidence of the widespread local food production that has historically taken place.
The package is distributed open source through the Centre's website.
?
Links to the Toolkit were requested by ARK Academies, Chance UK), and the Restorative Justice Council
Verdier J., Torres-Jerez I., Wang M., Andriankaja A., Allen S.N., He J., Tang Y., Murray J.D., and Udvardi M.K. (2013) Establishment of the Lotus japonicus Gene Expression Atlas (LjGEA) and its use to explore legume seed maturation. Plant Journal 74:351-62
Dr Mark Slater and Dr Matthew Williams are active developers of the Ganga project, which provides a user interface for job management across both local and grid/remote resources. This is a software tool that has and is being used outside of particle physics, in Astrophysics, Medical physics and the commercial sector, to help users manage their computing tasks.
Used in several pharmaceutical companies for applications in drug design and development
Sire is now in use in a number of pharmaceutical companies for applications in drug design and development
None.
The system was re-deployed in a musical performance of Emily Howard's &amp;quot;Ada Sketches&amp;quot; as part of the national celebration of the work of Ada Lovelace.
None.
The software is enabling us to characterise flight performance in relation to other morphological, ecological and physiological variables such as metabolic rate, muscle power, range expansion etc.
It greatly reduces the time required to optimise the output window for gyro-TWAs.
We have found the app is a powerful tool to raise awareness of the potential of quantum technologies, by demonstrating that near-ideal textbook manipulations of quantum systems can now be routinely performed on demand.
Software was at one time in use by 100+ researchers; aspects of the system are the subject of a knowledge exchange activity with SEPA to enhance their SEWeb tool.
Used by about 140 chemists. Used in teaching at Leeds
This software was validated for the first Milestone of our MRC DPFS grant enabling us to proceed to obtain and process 40 clinical PET/CT scans, demonstrating the clinical efficacy of the software.
None
Direct comparison with jet data from the Large Hadron collider (e.g JHEP 1512 (2015) 105)
The software is in an early stage, but functional for deposition of data to a small number of repositories. As such we are not yet ready for end-user testing.

However, we are collaborating with Cyverse US (was iPlant Collaborative) to investigate the use of COPO as the brokering system for their Data Commons.
It underpins the Artcodes and Storicodes mobile apps.
The open source release of the library enables other developers to create bespoke apps that make use of Artcodes.
The library is currently being used by undergraduate and PhD projects.
Since launching in August 2014, 380 users have registered to the site.
applied to real athmospheric data
applied to real athmospheric science data
It got Oxfam thinking of stories in a new way. There has not been any follow on from this specific app but the collaboration started another research project- Internet of Second Hand Things
Publication: Tiberti M., Fraternali F., Fornili A. Probing compensatory mechanisms in protein structure and dynamics through in-silico application of forces; in preparation
This will allow NRW assess carbon stock and compare the value of salt marshes for carbon to other grassland habitats such as peat bogs.
Due to highly intermittence of solar radiation in cloudy conditions, it is difficult to calculate the solar uniformity of the solar flux at solar cell, which was developed by an automated process using the optical model.
AfterParty now has a community of users worldwide.
Badger has been used extensively by the Blaxter lab and others to present genome data to the world.
The main impact is the growing number of schoolteachers using the site to teach grammar - a subject that the vast majority of UK English teachers were not taught, and where conventional books and online resources often provide conflicting definitions.
- Marketing and sales of InTouch's SmartWater solution.
Hundreds of users, many performances and music releases.
Once deployed, the software would allow to 1) gather insights about the ever evolving malicious DNS infrastructure used by malware and 2) generates smart black lists to be deployed by the community at large (deployment is private for the time being; we need to finalize large-scale experiments and to secure additional data feeds before releasing it to the public).
More groups worldwide using the software
The software has been downloaded 16 times.
The ProteoCache has enabled a much higher throughput to be maintained for our leading secondary structure prediction server with minimum investment in new computer hardware and hence impact on greenhouse emissions!
This addition to deal.II allows for the solution of electromagnetic problems using Nedelec on meshes that do not conform to its standard convention. This includes meshes generated externally using external mesh generators as well as certain classes of geometries (e.g. spheres) built by within the deal.II library. As written above, the implemented basis function set also lends itself to efficient preconditioners for problems in electromagnetism, including eddy current problems.
We use it to characterise the nonlinear transformations performed by photoreceptors
Nothing significant so far.
A follow on project should see it developed it unique software for very high resolution FE modelling.
Demonstrated effectivity of algorithms in research paper.
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
n/a
Spin-out company MIME Technologies Ltd
Happerley Farmed Knowledge exchange partnershio
n/a
Preliminary work - research still ongoing
We are engaged in a number of conversation with industrial partners (e.g., McAfee Labs, Qualcomm, and Google) and academia (e.g., University of Luxembourg, National University Singapore, TU Munich) to further monetize on the capability analysis of CopperDroid.
Training for PhD students
sharing and scientific advance
To follow in due course.
The source codes have been used by some domain researchers to benchmark their optimisation algorithms for continuous dynamic optimisation problems.
This package disseminates the Netdis algorithm for network comparison. We have already had some queries about it.
Results were provided to a European project where the project would not have been completed without our software
Has been used by a number of researchers, internal and external to the IFS.
Used for teaching NMR simulations at graduate level (CDT).
Other researchers have built on this to implement their own approaches, and to compare to this one.
Go-with-the flow was hailed as the most innovative app at the Festival of Digital Health, 2014 and we won the Runners Up prize. The event celebrated the cutting edge of health apps in the fields of gamification and self-tracking and included a live showcase of apps and games demonstrating innovation from UCL academics and SMEs. More details here.

http://www.fdh.ucl.ac.uk/event/gamification-self-tracking-health-wellbeing/

Subsequently I also won people's choice award for presenting our work at the Grace Hopper London Colloquium 2015.

http://academy.bcs.org/content/london-hopper-colloquium.

We were also finalists at the Social Innovators Challenge that was orgainsed and hosted by Healthbox, UCLB and Numbers4Good, in collaboration with Janssen Healthcare Innovation and Trafford Housing Trust, with support from the Cabinet Office

http://www.healthsocialinnovators.org/
TeSS is ELIXIR's training platform
The tool has been used by ARM, Imagination Technologies, and has received interest from other partners.
The code is one of the major components in the Automatic Statistician project:

http://www.automaticstatistician.com/
XBeach-G is increasingly used by coastal scientist to study storm impacts on gravel beaches. Consultancies are also starting to use it.
This was one of the first deployments to actually use 6LowPAN and CoAP over an 868MHz radio link. Other researchers trying to do work in this area have gained from our experience and settings.
Used for energy load prediction problems by EDF (France). Collaboration with EDF to improve methods for this purpose.
publication
Public access to rare images esp for host communities
Correspondence from scholars
The results obtained using S2F are currently being used by two research groups who are actively working with organism of a high practical interest for crop production and for biofuel production (Pablo Sotelo, Universidad Nacional de Asuncion (Paraguay); Matteo Pellegrini, University of California, Los Angeles (USA)).

S2F has been used for our participation in two CAFA challenges, organized by an international research community of more than 50 research groups devoted to the study of protein function prediction methods.
The family groupings provided by GFam for Arabidopsis were included in TAIR10 genome release. The results are available from the official TAIR (The Arabidopsis Information Resource) website: ftp://ftp.arabidopsis.org/home/tair/Genes/TAIR10_genome_release/TAIR10_domain_architectures.tab.t10
The development of this software increases the capacity of the general public to increase agency over the personal data they generate on their mobile devices. This software is also openly available to researchers as an innovative digital tool.
This software builds on outputs from a previous AHRC grant 'Our Data Ourselves' (AH/M010015/1). This variation of the MobileMiner optimises open data capacities. It deploys Funf, an open source framework for collecting and analyzing mobile data. This software is open to all users and augments their capacities to securely experiment with the data they generate on their mobile deviceswhile respecting ethical and privacy guidelines.
Algorithms that feature in these web applications are used by NHS Blood and Transplant for quarterly matching runs of the National Living Donor Kidney Sharing Schemes.
Successful Kickstarter crowd-funding campaign raised &pound;46k to build and distribute instruments to musicians in 20 countries; a second production run commenced in 2015, bringing the total raised to around &pound;100k. Musicians using the instrument have contributed their own videos, and development of the project is ongoing. Invitation to present TouchKeys in several international conferences and venues.
The creation of epibase set up the basis of a new framework for disease outbreak analysis using free, open-source software. It gathered a community of worldwide experts in infectious disease modelling, statistics and bioinformatics working collectively on its development. It is also an essential piece of episerve, a new web-based platform for the collection and analysis of disease outbreaks, developed by Thibaut Jombart and David Aanensen, in collaboration with the Alert &amp;amp; Response Team at WHO.
This version of the app was greatly improved from the first iteration, and the creation of live reports allowed users to get the information they requested in a more timely fashion.
Published in 'Sole24Ore' and 'The Florentine' in Italy. Available for use on iTunes and GooglePlay. Promoted on all digital and analogue platforms of the Comune di Firenze (including digital signage). Reports on AHRC and U of Exeter websites.
It was released globally in 2015. So far used to update the Government of Sudan, Bangladesh and Vietnam National Strategic Plan in 2013/4 (in Sudan, a move to more decentralized provision of TB patient care), South Africa, Ghana and Nigeria. It will be used in ~5 more high TB burden countries in 2016.
New functionality for the Docker (container virtualisation) software stack
EvoSuite is used by several research groups and practitioners.
The Supercomputer App has been showcased at a number of conferences (e.g., SC15) and events (e.g., ARCHER Launch, outreach events, the Big Bang Fair). It allows people of all ages to get a better understanding of the trade-offs involved in PC design.
MetaboLights is using this component. This has given MetaboLights a more feature rich NMR &amp; MS special viewer, which runs on top of the existing reference spectra. Example: http://www.ebi.ac.uk/metabolights/MTBLC27570#nmrspectra
Data files within metabolomics studies can become rather large, taking to much time in the process of online submission, sometimes producing connection time outs. In order to prevent this we are providing a mechanism for failsafe and resumable online transfer of large study data to MetaboLights, benefiting small or large labs equally. Submitters can use the ftp protocol, with longer connection time that regular http, or use an Aspera client application. Aspera is being assumed as the general procedure for the future.

We are actively participating in the new ISATab developments, leaded by the ISATeam at Oxford, are being done on JSON schemas and JSON representation for ISA-Tab. A python-based ISA-API with components for parsing and converting between ISA-Tab and ISA-JSON, will be available soon and a working prototype is being tested now. The conversion from Metabolomics Workbench to ISA-tab will be carried out by a python script that relies on BeautifulSoup parser. This script is being developed to produce ISA objects, that way the actual serialization mechanism can be decided later. In addition, the ISAconverter tool has implemented ISA-Tab to SRA-xml and a opposite conversion from SRA-xml to ISA-Tab.
Menpo project was used to develop the first 3DMM built from 10,000 people. This is, to the best of our knowledge, the largest scale
3D Morphable Model ever constructed, containing statistical information from a huge variety of the human population (different age, gender and ethnicity groups).
None
All the process and agent models for the ASSETS project will run on the platform, which also enables the ARIES project and others, and is taught to modelers worldwide in the Spring University held yearly in Bilbao.
This is particularly useful when querying (using Semantic Web technologies) multiple heterogeneous datasets making use of different type of URIs.
The software has only recently been released, but there is strong interest for its incorporation into the ProteoSuite's consortium's BBSRC BBR funded user-centric proteomics software (http://www.proteosuite.org/?q=aboutus).
Please see narrative impact section
Data collection underway
Nil yet
(development has continued).
Publication in PeerJ ... independently listed.
used for code verification at Level 3 in ESA Euclid ground segment pipeline development; instrumental to assess code performances
Invaluable resource for students and postdocs in our group. Modified versions of the software have also been shared with other UK university collaborators.
The software has been used in three publications by other groups
Testing and revising a number of prototypes also gave insights related to design issues. Each prototype had different benefits for difference group of users and it could not be said that one is better than the other. We are also not advocating replacing physical activities with only virtual activities. Instead, we believe that VW can provide interactive experiences to promote a continuing selfhood which may have been lost due to dementia and/or moving to long-term care facilities. It can also provide stimulation and engagement to promote a feel good factor. Negative memories could be mitigated by playful design. VW could also be a &quot;place&quot; that allows staff and residents to foster personal relationship and trust, which may improve care.
The code was used by my colleagues to simulate Spin-Orbit-Torque effects in antiferromagnets which has contributed to a breakthrough in AFM spintronics (PRL 2015, Science 2016). Development towards next generation non-volatile magnetic memory.
The software was designed in a flexible fashion, to allow quick adaptation to a range of acquisition schemes and detectors. It is therefore expected that all or part of it could be used for a range of hyperspectral data.
The application was developed in response to participants requests for remote access to the database from smart devices and therefore was a direct response to study participants requests.
The software has already been used to score the strategic content of around 10,000 UK annual reports.
Initial findings were reported at:
Vasiliki Athanasakou, Mahmoud El-Haj, Paul Rayson, Martin Walker, Steven Young (2014) Computer-based Analysis of the Strategic Content of UK Annual Report Narratives. American Accounting Association Annual Meeting, August 2-6, 2014, Atlanta, USA.
The SEEP platform was used for a range of projects by collaborators eg from IBM.
The impacts are for the moment in our own research capability in larger scale modelling of crustal architecture in the polar regions leveraging on the newly available regional to continental-scale compilations.
Software
Publication.
The method is currently distributed with ONETEP, which in turn is distributed via both academic license and commercial license within the &quot;Materials Studio&quot; package by BIOVIA. Three papers based on the software development work are currently under review.
Web presence for the study
OSKAR plays a key role in the development of the Square Kilometre Array (SKA) by providing simulation capability to the Science Data Processor (SDP) and Low Frequency Aperture Array (LFAA) consortia. By explicitly evaluating the response from radio sources across the whole sky and allowing for complex station beam effects, OSKAR enables simulations that were previously impossible to perform. Although developed to simulate data from the SKA, OSKAR has been used within a number of other projects in the radio astronomy community.
Visualisations produced by this software have been used as part of our undergraduate teaching.
This work is generating a lot of interest and has led to several seminar invitations.
To date this pipeline has only been used internally by our group at EBI, however we anticipate uptake by the research community in the future.
Basis of 1 journal paper
User-interface elements which were previously presented as large pop-up elements (e.g. the track selector) have now been moved to a sidebar
Many clean-ups to the track-selector, and a new matrix view for use with track-hubs.
Completed support for the track-hub metadata model.
Added a user-interface for manually connecting to a track-hub.
Progress indicators on tracks which are actively loading data.
Improved support for scatter-plot tracks.
This script allows us to perform statistical evaluation of large-scale datasets and assign significance to proteomic/metabolomic screen hits using objective criteria.
We have used the redesigned material to teach students in academic years 2013-2014 and 2014-2015, reaching approximately 900 students in total. The materials have been evaluated after each use so that improvements could be made. This will all continue in academic year 2015-2016, where we will be using the online materials in all our existing courses as well as four new ones, two targeted at QStep students pursuing 'with quantitative methods' degrees and two targeted at 'regular' students, including a College-wide course in Statistical Literacy.
only just launched
Still early days.
The dynamic background model has been very popular among the research community and many other researchers benefit from using the code released by us.
Publication is in prep.
This has been submitted to accompany the publication of the statistical methodology paper in the Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (currently under review)
The package will be used in schools and for outreach purposes at other universities in 2015.
No notable impacts yet. Some downloads and interest.
No notable impacts yet. Some downloads and interest.
None so far but this was linked to a publication and those methods have been cited so this software is being used.
A very useful tool to measure the influences of key factors on emission price.
This software is currently in use by several labs in different countries
Easy introduction to the potential energy landscape approach for new users.
The code was critical for the data analysis in an article Kohl, Ostrovsky et al (Cell 2013)
The heat equation was solved for heptane droplets both spherical and deformed, heated by Gaussian laser beams and immersed in either water or deuterium oxide bulk phases. The model inputs were i) the laser beam intensity profile - obtained from numerical solutions of the Maxwell equations (in the modelling and control work stream) and ii) the deformed droplet shapes - experimentally obtained through structured illumination measurements (in the optics work stream). The model outputs were the temperature and the interfacial tension profiles at the droplet interfaces.
While tag software is tailored to the particular species under study and the questions being addressed with a given field deployment, the philosophy behind Sea Mammal Research Unit Instrumentation Group (SMRU-IG) software protocols is to adopt a general set of principles to achieve the best results within the energy and bandwidth constraints. Here, we discuss these and review the general protocol that is used to simultaneously collect information on geographical movements, diving behaviour and in-situ oceanographic information from marine mammals.This should ahelp other developers to develop ocean platforms of ocean observing.
None as yet
The software has been just released for public. No extensive public use has yet been observed. The software has been used extensively in our group and by our collaborators.
This in-house system may replace the need to out-source the management of drug supply processes, and so will have cost-saving implications both within Add-Aspirin and for future trials.
Requests for collaborations and requests for participation in responsive mode grants, and foundation for PhD fellowship proposal to international funding organisation.
see above
The general public has direct access to slice views of EMDB reconstructions.
This tool makes it easier to deposit data to EMPIAR
The developed optimisation software can be efficiently used by engineers and practitioners to design more efficient and resilient cold-formed steel (CFS) structural systems.
Improved design and inclusiveness of clinical trials into intracerebral haemorrhage
This version of the code was used to run some of the simulations in &quot;Computational Assay of H7N9 Influenza Neuraminidase Reveals R292K
Mutation Reduces Drug Binding Affinity&quot; Scientific Reports, doi:10.1038/srep03561 The emergence of a novel H7N9 avian influenza that infects humans is a serious cause for concern. Of the genome sequences of H7N9 neuraminidase available, one contains a substitution of arginine to lysine at position 292, suggesting a potential for reduced drug binding efficacy. We have performed molecular dynamics simulations of oseltamivir, zanamivir and peramivir bound to H7N9, H7N9-R292K, and a structurally related H11N9 neuraminidase. They show that H7N9 neuraminidase is structurally homologous to H11N9, binding the drugs in identical modes. The simulations reveal that the R292K mutation disrupts drug binding in H7N9 in a comparable manner to that observed experimentally for H11N9-R292K. Absolute binding free energy calculations with the WaterSwap method confirm a reduction in binding affinity. This indicates that the efficacy of antiviral drugs against H7N9-R292K will be reduced. Simulations can assist in predicting disruption of binding caused by mutations in neuraminidase, thereby providing a computational 'assay.'
The software suite is downloaded many thousand times, and is used in the solution of macromolecular structures which are then deposited in the Protein Data Bank. We don't have accurate statistics on how many structures were solved partially or completely with CCP4 software, but based on citations and browsing of recent PDB entries we expect it to be comfortably &gt; 50%. These structures are then a permanent resource, used by structural scientists, bioinformaticians and biotech scientists.
This software is of interest to the project CCP-EM for electron cryo-microscopy, and selected components are likely to be re-used in that project. This will help create synergies between structural biology techniques by providing common infrastructures, and facilitating data/metadata transfer.
The RFM has been requested by, and distributed to, a number of groups within the UK and overseas and used for a variety of purposes including modelling lab spectra, satellite radiances, atmospheric absorption of extraterrestrial infrared radiation, modelling exoplanet atmospheres.
New science can be done with this tool kit. Collaboration with international scientists.
This was vital to keep the network operating at one of the install locations where a touch screen did not work, and it therefore underpinned our outreach activities at that site.
.
Wander Anywhere was the focus of research in the Wander Thoresby project (see Ben Bedwell's funding), has been used in the Art Maps project, has been used to teach professionals in classes funded by The University of Nottingham's EPRSC Impact Acceleration Account, and is used to teach undergraduate Computer Science students at The University of Nottingham.
Also used for:
Nemi Anywhere - Developed through Nottingham Universities Digital Humanities Center Leonardo fellowship, artist Theresa Caruana is working with Dr Katharina Lorenze and Nottingham City Museums and Galleries curator Ann Insker to explore how an archaeological site and its artifacts can be represented to visitors away from the physical site. Theresa has used the Anywhere 2 platform to create Nemi Anywhere - a public art trail reinterpreting the Sanctuary of Diana at Lake Nemi, Italy, in Nottingham's Highfields Park.
Anywhere 2 - The testing and further development of the platform was aided through a Creative Innovation grant, the business support strand of the Cultural Olympiad in the East Midlands, which funded a period of collaboration with Theresa Caruana. During this period, EPSRC funding in the form of a Toward Pervasive Media feasibility study, Urban Mediator, was accessed to allow the development and trial of a number of mobile city exploration experiences using the Anywhere 2 platform, culminating in a showcase event at the Broadway media centre in Nottingham in February 2011.
None
This tool is used in over 1000 laboratories worldwide, and is the main structural connectivity tool used by major MRI data projects such as the human connectome project. It is also used in several clinical applications such as deep brain stimulation and pre-surgical planning.
Too early to judge
The transcriptions could easily be changed into html so that they could be placed onto the project website.
This software is being used to benchmark numerical algorithms being developed for the UK Met Office forecast model.
AccessiblePeakMeter (http://depic.eecs.qmul.ac.uk/apm/downloads.html#download) received the Best Solution by a Large Organization award in the AT&amp;amp;T and New York University Connect Ability Challenge, a global software competition for software technologies that improve the lives of people living with disabilities. The winner were announced on Sunday July 26 2015, the day of the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.

AccessiblePeakMeter was also featured in the issue 19 of the Computer Science for Fun magazine, which explains the AccessiblePeakMeter in a bright, simple and effective way.

AccessiblePeakMeter was shortlisted for QM Public Engagement Award 2015.
Dissemination of various spatial proteomics data and data underlying the implementation of reproducible spatial proteomics data analysis.
Interactive interface use to disseminate the first large-scale and high resolution stem call localisation map (Christoforou et al., 2016 doi:10.1038/ncomms9992).
Not known as yet
No actual Impacts realised to date
No actual Impacts realised to date
Speed and accuracy of parameter extraction allowing analysis of results to be done post collection. The software was then used to update software to provide more accurate real-time feedback.
Enables data which could ordinarily only be locally and instantaneously monitored on an LCD display to be transmitted over the Internet for real-time processing by analytical services and real-time monitoring via web interfaces. Supports remote reconfiguration of device firmware parameters, which otherwise could only be modified by firmware update, entailing physical access to the energy monitor.
Approximately 50 students entered SysMIC Module 1 between January 2013 and January 2014. Approximately 65% of entrants had completed the module and received their completion certificate by June 2014.
The tools has been ported for use, alongside CONSeQuence, to the GIO resource at QMUL for use in the their proteomics focused Galaxy pipeline
MCM uniquely bridges qualitative and quantitative approaches, and enables more participatory analysis. It allows great flexibility, offering an appraisal method that is strongly grounded in theory but highly unconstrained in practice. This versatility has been reflected in its use internationally to explore contentious decisions in the fields of energy strategy, food production, environmental policy, radioactive waste management and public health. Appraisal of policy options in these areas using MCM has influenced which policies have been adopted. Please see website for case studies.
NB. The tool has been available in spreadsheet form since the late 1990s, but also available as a web-based app since 2015.
The skeleton is used for developing a new superpixel algorithm jointly with Microsoft Research Cambridge, UK.
There is a growing community of uses of this system, and companies such as EDF Energy in France are already using the system in a research setting. We hope to find industrial partners to license the system.
The software is being widely used by researchers in low-resource settings for prevalence mapping of tropical diseases.
SEMS has allowed us to monitor in detail how much trial participants have used their e-bikes (GPS) and how they used the assistance levels, for 100 trial participants, each using the bike for 6-8 weeks in 2012 and 2013. This data forms part of our empirical analysis of e-bike use.
We have had much interest from this project. From this system we (1) have had contacts from heritage organisation in Scotland, and consequently have done some surveying for them; (2) have surveyed sites from Cadw (including the Maid of Harlech); (3) had a conversation with a researcher from Google about using this technique more widely; (4) been invited to give a keynote in Germany.
We are currently able to calculate momentum densities. Hopefully, other researchers around the world will also be able to use our contribution to help interpret their experimental data.
None
The software has already been used successfully in one clinical trial - OxCKD1 which has now completed recruitment and is in the follow up phase.
The development of the artcasting app has allowed us to generate evaluation data in a novel way and to explore methods of analysing and visualising this for the benefit of museum and gallery partners.
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
There have been 32 releases of Jalview since June 2005.

Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
Has been used by other researchers in machining and retrieval applications
The app was sent to several companies to spur their interest in commercial exploitation of the intellectual property arising from relevant EPSRC projects. Dolby has made several visit to King's College and is presently evaluating our technology.
This package has been very favourably received by the community.
The package has been downloaded by practitioners.
The prototype has been demonstrated in TfL
The software is publicly available and is complementary to a widely used software, GROMACS for Molecular Dynamics Simulations.
We are monitoring usage and we will explore interests from companies on the allosteric sites identification.
Applications in safety cases for reactors
Other researchers have approached us for information on our tracking system. They have told us that they it has enabled them to obtain data that will be vital to their research.
The FATHMM-MKL algorithm has been adopted by dbNSFP and as a plugin for the European Bioinformatics Institutes Variant Effect Predictor, and is thus widely available to researchers predicting the functional effects of genetic variants.
Generation of much higher level of interest in WAAM technology and therefore industrial partners joining the WAAMMat programme.
further research
The open-source OpenMI compliant version of UnaLinea has been included in the LiverpoolBay64 composition of model components that exchange data at run-time, thereby allowing for 2-way interactions between open coast and estuaries.
This software implements the back-end information management developed in the DML and ASymMus projects that enables data analysis with the DML. It provides the API for the Web interface and access via SPARQL and Prolog.
This software was used in the DML and it's follow-on project ASymMus, as well as in the recent Musical Theatre project.
None as yet
Enhancing the efficiency of data accession and ingestion into the data centre, ensuring common best practice is followed and appropriate T&amp;C's and metadata are adopted and documented. Solution enhances the efficiency and ease with which it can be discovered and accessed by third parties.
TNT Go was demonstrated at various summer schools as a way of generating interest in the TNT library project and providing an easy to use introduction to performing simulations using the TNT algorithms. This is the first web tool we are aware of that allows TNT simulations to be carried out without the need for any software to be installed by the user.
This software library has been used widely in our group for tensor network simulations, as well as being downloaded by users in other groups/institutions for use in their own calculations.
This software is part of the code being developed in the current NERC Innovation award and was central to the publication Bennett et al. (2016) on the Laetoli tracks in Tanzania.
--
The project website is the major outface of the project - now it is set up its impact will develop throughout the course of the project. The website contains a record of the all the events of the project and recordings of the talks and workshops that have been organized by the project team. It contains a section 'Media Gallery' which gives a series of short articles and visual information indicating the nature of the research of the project members, the kinds of methodologies that they are developing and the work that they are doing with Italian communities. It also includes a record of the exhibitions that the team has organized. It has had over 23,000 clicks and is attracting around 500 new visitors each month.
The UCL Genetics lab on Healthy Aging is using this software on a daily basis to measure the number of fly eggs in their vials. The number of eggs is an indicator of fly health.
Our evaluation shows that the annotated document-reaction pairs can be used to create a rule-based document ranking system, and that machine learning can be used to rank documents by their relevance to pathway reactions. We find that a Support Vector Machine-based system outperforms several baselines and matches the performance of the rule-based system. The success of the query extraction and ranking methods are used to update our existing pathway search system, PathText.
JEnsembl is an API (application programmable interface) which provides access to all versions of databases at Ensembl and EnsemblGenomes.
This library has already been used in a paper (Gomez-Dans et al, 2016), and on others which are currently being written. This software forms the foundations of a complex processing scheme to retrieve land surface properties from the Sentinel family of satellites funded under the H2020 scheme.
This library provides tools to facilitate data discovery, retrieval, parsing and mapping of data and metadata obtained from the UK National Flow Archive.
Software for the detailed interrogation of portal hardware in order to diagnose and fix issues
Unity game engine development of the visualisation for tracking RTIs.
More people are using the GAMIT model
A preliminary version of the software was demonstrated at the end-of-project event, where it was trialled by a small group of cochlear implant users.
Creation of the rest of the Workspace from which digital editions are being produced.
This software has been used to edit the collation of the Gospel according to John for the Novum Testamentum Graecum Editio Critica Maior.
The app was featured in the Bernaducci - Meisel gallery show for Nathan Walsh in New York. It was very well received by gallery staff, critics and owners. The show sold out.
None as yet.
Unique in his kind, it is the only available technology to correct partial volume effects directly onimages.
Important benefits of new technology are the cost and its ability to survey a larger proportion of the asset stock in much shorter time than when CCTV is used alone. This technology is not intended to replace CCTV completely, but it enables the operators to reduce the survey costs and increase the efficiency and levels of customer service by focusing CCTV on those pipes where need is greatest and managing interventions through measuring objective change. SewerBattTM can also be used to confirm that interventions such as pipe replacement, rehabilitation or cleaning have been carried out to a satisfactory standard. A report commissioning from an independent consultant found that potential savings in the inspection costs from the application of SewerBattTM technology ranging from 35% to 82% could be achieved. These savings enable more focused CCTV inspection to be carried out on a given length of sewer network or permit surveys of larger pipe lengths a given inspection budget.
The app has received considerable interest from various community groups and a further version, Link Local was subsequently derived.
Used in a host of conferences, workshops as underlying technology.
Southern, J. &amp;amp;amp; Speed, C. (2015) Sharing occasions at a distance: the different dimensions of comobility. In Moving Sites: Investigating Site-Specific Dance Performance Edited Victoria Hunter. Oxford: Routledge.
Partnerships have been developed with Modeshift UK, Modeshift Northwest, Transport for Greater Manchester, district councils and local authorities (e.g. Trafford, Manchester city, Salford Urban Vision, Oldham, Wigan, Stockport, Bolton, Cumbria), as well as primary schools. There has also been interest from school leaders in Canada, USA and Europe.

The app won a national award at Modeshift (November 2013) under the section 'partnership' engagement.
On general release through the Apple store
It is now used in over 75 shops by Oxfam
This has reduced processing time from weeks to hours. In turn, this has led to a reduction in manual resource required
More accurate and timely administration of project information. Automation of project number assignment
For larger datasets, this reduces conversion time from hours using the manual conversion method to seconds.
Enables researchers to view timely summaries on incoming GP data
The codes are being used to provide thermal and pressure (where relevant) loss variations with important design (e.g. geometry of the compression/expansion space) and operation (frequency, valve timings). These will form the basis of a closer interaction with the Universities of Ghent and Liege. Ultimately, an attempt will be made to incorporate these into libraries for the modelling of reciprocating machines, but also for suggesting next-generation high-performance compression/expansion machines.
The tool has been used for the empirical evaluation of our method for minimising ontologies.
Publications. Further funding. Preliminary ndustrial adoption.
Publications. Further grants. Preliminary industrial adoption.
Use in various modelling studies / applications.
The software enables rapid and efficient retrieval of promoter CAGE data from existing collections, as well as the processing, analysis and visualisation of new CAGE data. It facilitates easy integration of CAGE with other genome-wide data.
Through this work, the SoundSoftware project supported the publication and collection in a reusable form of substantial research work in sparse representation techniques.
Not yet and project investigators just started to use it.
Graphic user interface for analyzing FO temperature data
n/a
Novel method of motif discovery made available to public.
Improved modelling of spray combustion processes accounting for dependence of modelling parameters.
Curation of databases and pathways through Workflow Design The web interface allows the user to create complex processing workflows composed of processing components and multiple branching and merging points.
User-interactive components, such as Manual Annotation Editor, make the processing of workflows pause and wait for input from the user, processing components, remote processing, user collaboration
Top performing system in BioCreative IV user interactive task
Still under assessment
A suite of python scripts for image processing, image classification, machine learning and computer vision techniques for historic map corpus
None.
Still being finalised.
Product still being developed.
It has demonstrated the ability to develop and use a web-browser as an alternative to statistical packages, as a way of linking environmental and health data.

Also shows how different versions of the browser can exist, as a way of restricting access for more confidential data. There are two version of the browser - one is public access, the other requires researchers to apply for access and is controlled through a login process.
This web tool is aimed at providing quantitative methods teachers resources to help students see the links between quantitative methods and substantive methods, increase their engagement in methods and improve their access to resources
The RMT code has been used for comparison with experiment to validate a new experimental technique for time-resolved four-wave mixing spectroscopy.
The launch is forthcoming (in 2015), however we have already received many enquiries about its availability for students and researchers.
None yet as method undergoing development
This software is key to our ongoing research.
To inform industry and the academic community of the energy saving potential of small cell and Het Net deployments in 4G networks. The outputs have directly fed the research agenda in 5G where cell densification is a major strategy to both in crease capacity whilst saving energy. A key reference is: Badic, B., O'Farrell, T., Loskot, P. and He, J., &quot;Energy efficient radio access architectures for green radio: large versus small cell size deployment&quot;, Proc. of 70th IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2009-Fall), Anchorage, Alaska, USA, 20-23 September 2009 Invited Paper (DOI: 10.1109/VETECF.2009.5379035, cited: 144)
No impacts as yet.
Not applicable
The system has been released only recently, so no notable impact can be reported at this point.
SemFacet will be used in 2016 in an exploratory project funded with an EPSRC IAA account. The industrial partner in the project is EDF (Electricite de France) in Paris.
Vampire is used in many applications, including program analysis and reasoning in algebra by various universities and high tech companies.

It is also a workhorse for trying new ideas in theorem proving. One can argue that many inventions implemented in Vampire, including indexing techniques, AVATAR architecture, and splitting methods considerably advanced the whole area of first-order theorem proving
The software has been used to align GCR1 homologues to class A, class B and class F GPCRs and hence show that plants contain GPCRs - or at least that they contain GPCR motifs, as shown in Taddese et al., PlantPhys, 2014, PMID 24246381. The software can also be used to align and hence dock pharmaceutically important peptide ligands, as will be shown in Weaver et al., in preparation (collaboration with D. Donnelly) and Weston et al., (collaboration with G. Ladds). Resources will be sought, e.g. from BBSRC, to enhance this software and to make it available as a web server.
The code allows quickly fit a large array of data. The code is suitable for analysing temporal measurements of OH rotational and vibrational temperatures.
This code is an update and re-write of the well-used Heidelberg MCTDH package, including many new features. It has lead to increased interest in the program and is part of an EU infra-structure project.
Following a workshop on Private Clouds, Public Good, Mydex have described how they developed data-sets spanning a lifetime of data for testing and development.

This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
No actual Impacts realised to date
The FLAGLET code is generally applicable for performing a wavelet analysis of signals defined on the 3D ball. It will be an integral component of the new 3D weak lensing framework that we are developing.
The CLOSER metadata search platform has a number of key inputs, questionnaire, data, study and data collection metadata. CADDIES is the tool used to input metadata captured from questionnaires and in particular paper forms. 

CADDIES is the most efficient methods of entering this information, for the purposes of this project. The project would not have been able to capture the metadata in the time and resources available with any other tool.
The platform has been shortlisted by the Global Flora's project - an initiative to construct a global flora for all plant species.
Too early to say
Access to accurate information about place-names is important for scientific research and effective and safe logistics operations in Antarctica. The UK-APC is a Foreign and Commonwealth Office committee - leadership in maps and place-names is one way that the UK plays an influential role in Antarctic affairs.
Academic papers and Herschel data products
sharing and scientific advance
Facilitation of recruitment 
Enquiries
This was put on Github very recently so no impact is known yet.
The code allows calculation of the muon fluxes and energy spectra underground.
Initial simulations have been done for underground laboratories in Italy, France and others.
In 2015 the model and method have applied to the SURF underground laboratory in the USA.
TBC
The original Bayesian analysis of blinking and bleaching paper has been cited over 170 times since it was published in 2012 and has been taken up by multiple groups around the world.
None known
Users are able to query for genes involved in pathogenesis across many species, and download genomic data linked to phenotypic query terms. The Phytopath web site had 9,310 unique visitors (measured by IP address) in 2015.
Publications. Further grants. Preliminary industrial adoption
None yet
This has enabled scientists in fields not directly related to CD spectroscopy to handle and follow data from this technique in ways they are familiar with within their own studies thereby providing them with more information on research from other avenues than their own but via an easier route.
Downloaded by 13 users (Feb 2016)
We are still trialling this
None to date.
Annotation Master has been used for obtaining continuous annotations for the MAPTRAITS Continuous Dataset that has been subsequently used for the MAPTRAITS'14 Challenge.
We can now run automated behaviour experiments overnight, which had dramatically increased the rate of data collection and the statistical power of our experiments
• Used for research and teaching in 70+ institutions worldwide and downloaded 43,000 times
• Used in industrial projects/labs (TRW automotive, Fujitsu, AAB, Microsoft, NASA, Honeywell)
• The last two PRISM tool papers have more than 1000 citations combined
• There are over 400 published papers relating to PRISM, more than 250 of which are external
.
40 Downloads in the last 30 days
None.
n/a
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
Longbow is now used routinely in our own research group, and is being adapted by other Collaborative Computational Projects (e.g., CCPEM) who have a similar requirement to make it easier for their community to use HPC resources.
It was used in a collaboration with Syngenta
The resource was launched in August 2015, so it is too early to report impacts.
Individuals in the network reported having it useful to both share the work that they were doing, and to see what others were doing and this facilitated discussion about whole-family approaches in practice. Organisations affiliated with the Family Potential Research Centre also found it a useful way of integrating academic research and front-line practice, and as a place to go and find information. From the start of the Knowledge Exchange, the website has received over 4000 page views.
Facilitation of model documentation process.
With this new formulation ERSEM can better describe plankton dynamics in environments in which salinity plays an important role in shaping phytoplankton community (e.g. estuaries)
The toolbox has been included in the official release of FVCOM.
This new development improves the representation of Si dynamics in ERSEM
The first approach to provide near-instantaneous measurement of density and three components of velocity spanning an extended three-dimensional volume.
-
This software has only just been released and a publication is currently under review.
wider dissemination of the research into the public domain.
Platform recently launched and currently being populated by academics and SMEs, with content added by project team and users. Evaluation of impact will follow.
None as yet
This package was used as part of a training course in bioinformatics held in Cambridge
Deployed at Belsay Hall, Northumberland, an English Heritage property.
New version of webASR (www.webasr.org) with new systems and demonstrators
None as yet; it is hoped that the application will be useful in the evaluation and comparison of population linkage techniques.
None yet.
Wang, M., Verdier, J., Benedito, V.A., Tang, Y., Murray, J.D., Ge, Y., Becker, J.D., Carvalho. H., Rogers, C., Udvardi, M., and He, J. (2013) LegumeGRN: a gene regulatory network prediction server for functional and comparative studies. PlosOne DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067434.
The software allowed us to verify certain identities which are important in connection with Beauville structures and may ultimatively be useful to find a proof of our &quot;finite width conjecture&quot;. But this is a long-term aim.
It allows fast and reliable simulation of phase contrast images. Despite to being a recent development, the University of Saskatchewan is using it, and we also use it as a training tool for students at UCL.
Nothing to report.
Nothing to report.
Many international groups have made use of our software for a wide variety of applications, details on the website and twitter feed:
https://twitter.com/Chaste_Project
MOSAICS provides applied scientists easy access to numerical methods in applied mathematics/statistics. Examples include but not limited to new Monte Carlo algorithms that brought all-atom mesoscale modelling within reach for the biophysics and computational biology communities.
The use of NMMC expanded the boundaries of computational structural biology with key applications such as aiding the design of RNA nanotechnology, increasing the resolution of macromolecular Cryo-electron microscopy, atomistic prediction of primary chromatin structure and the epigenetic effect, modelling diabodies that tune extracellular receptor signaling to counteract intracellular oncogenic mutations, deciphering important molecular processes of the adaptive immune response.
This software has been developed over the last ten years by Peter Minary. The fellow funded on this grant (Konrad Krwaczyk) has been working with Peter to develop user-friendly interfaces and applications for this software in the structural biology domain.
Currently the &quot;Space Syntax Toolkit&quot; consists of two modules: &quot;Graph analysis&quot; and &quot;Attributes explorer&quot;. The &quot;Graph analysis&quot; module supports the verification and analysis of the spatial network model. This consists of an axial map layer, representing the urban street network, and an unlinks layer, indicating bridges and tunnels with no level crossing. The module offers a verification tool to check the geometric and topological integrity of each layer, helping correct any problems before running the analysis. The axial and segment analysis is performed in depthmapXnet, via a direct link from QGIS, which receives and prepares the results once the calculations are completed. The &quot;Attributes explorer&quot; module supports the visual and statistical exploration of the analysis results. It provides quick analysis of individual quantitative attributes of a selected layer, mapping the values using simplified symbology settings, displaying essential descriptive statistics, and plotting basic interactive charts (histogram and scatter plot).
So far the software has not been used outside the group, but is currently being applied to some antibody modelling for consultancy work on antibody humanization.
This software is used by LHC experimental collaborations to obtain theoretical predictions to be compared to data
Too soon to tell.
none
none
none
High-impact publications reflecting some fundamental scientific observations.
Several requests from fellow researchers to use the algorithms
The algorithm has been adopted in the Relion package for the particle picking and selection stage for single particle analysis and high resolution protein structure determination by electron cryo-microscopy.
The software production is ongoing.
It enables to predict full performance of the CPV system which includes, optics, heat transfer and electrical performance.
None to this date; it does however act as stepping stone for further research in my research group. The software tutorial is publicly available.
It enables users to match two different sources of data on publications, i.e. MEDLINE/PubMed and ISI Web of Science
The parallel CCP-EM project for Electron Microscopy has expressed interest in using and distributing the software.
ALEA is actively used by a number of groups in the UK and the US (e.g. Edinburgh, Lancaster, Virginia Tech, Old Dominion University) to perform targeted, energy-aware code optimisation on high-end computing systems.
n/a yet.
Both the Office for National Statistics and the Food Standards Agency are using the COSMOS platform to support departmental objectives. The software is also being used by several universities in the UK and Australia.
The website is used by farmers and agronomists to obtain information about pest, weed and disease management. There are 523 registered users and even more visits to the website from unregistered users. To give an idea of usage there were 474 visits to the website in the last month. This not bad considering that the website has only been live for one year. The main impact is to empower the users with information and improve access to relevant information about crop protection. We also get feedback from users about what their priorities are.

This could have general implications for how to share information and improve research impact.
Used in numerous published papers (cited 31 times to date according to Google Scholar).
The database underpins the IAEA book TRS 479 Handbook on Transfer Parameter Values, used throughout the year.
We have shared this tool on V-hub, the main platform for volcano-related software tools, and made it freely accessible to researchers around the world.
Traditional capture-recapture approaches to estimating animal abundance or density ignore an obvious spatial component of capture probability; organisms close to traps are more likely to be captured than those that are far away. Explicitly accounting for an individual's location provides additional information from which to infer animal density. Spatially explicit capture-recapture (SECR) methods have been developed for this purpose. An advantage of these over traditional capture-recapture methodology is that they allow for animal density estimation using passive detectors (e.g., cameras or microphones) over a single sampling occasion.

AD Model Builder (ADMB) is a statisical software package most widely used for nonlinear modelling, and is well suited to the implementation of maximum likelihood SECR methods. Although growing in popularity since becoming freely available, open-source software in 2008, ADMB is used by a minority of statisticians and ecologists, who, in general, are far more comfortable with the popular programming language and software environment R.

The aim of admbsecr is to enable a user is able to fit SECR models that incorporate additional spatial information, using ADMB to fit the model and return the results to the R session.
55 citations and use in numerous studies.
Versions 1, 2 and 3 have lead to follow-on grants from EPSRC, U-Man KTA and collaborations with companies such as a Leading Motorsport Company, National Nuclear Laboratory (NNL).

1st DualSPHysics Users Workshop took place at the University of Manchester, September 2015.
The software is now used at Harvard Medical School and other places around the word.
Use of E book technology to permit public access for scholars, universities and schools to the visual impact of one of the colourful Wode Part Books
Use in other particle physics experiments
None as yet.
Softwares similar to this do indeed exist: the ERC project COMPOSES of Marco Baroni from the Center for Mind/Brain Sciences of the University of Trento is one such example. But it is the first time that one can input different copora and datasets, as well as normalization schemes, and compare the performances of models across all the parameters, and further, display the results graphically.
The app has been used within Liverpool, indeed it can only be used in Liverpool as part of our exploration of 'reterritorialising the cloud'. It provides an example of how to link historical archival research in new and exploratory ways with the city. Users have an increased understanding of the role the ports played in the city, as well as a critical perspective on current sourcing of food.
Hard to say yet - we anticipate that this will become clearer as the amount of data in the database increases.
Project is ongoing. Further impacts to be realised in future, in the form of sharing the software with other healthcare bodies and its actual implementation in the face of an epidemic.
Initial studies in November 2013, using scans of fragments of a synthetic fresco, have shown that the user feedback collected that way is effective and helps increasing the quality of our match suggestions to conservators who reassemble a shattered wallpainting. The next step of evaluation, required to finalise the app, will be to run the system alongside the assembly of a Late-Bronze-Age fresco that has not been assembled previously. However, due to local constraints on site, it was not possible to conduct this experiment with our partners at the Akrotiri excavation. We still plan to run the fully-fledged study as soon as the situation on site has changed (hopefully in summer 2015), which will aim at including the regular visitors to the Akrotiri excavation as test subjects, too. Ultimately, we believe that the software will be able to assist various assembly projects in cultural heritage applications, and that its development will spawn additional, similar projects.
None yet; work in progress
This software is used as the basis of the EU FP7 funded ORIGIN system. This software was also used extensively in a Top and Tail Transformation project funded through HubNet.
The app has been demonstrated at public engagement events and has been made available on the Apple iOS App Store so it can be installed by members of the public on their own devices and used to explore and add content.
This has enabled object tracking information to be used for behavioural modelling, which has thus far been applied to determining the location of attention of people watching television with a mobile device (see http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2851581.2892483).

Modifications have also been merged into the original CppMT tool by the original author, and are available as open source software for use and reuse by other researchers.
First product to allow data digestion from next-generation silicon probes
Used so far by over 200 scientists in over 30 leading research labs worldwide
Community engagement + lots of outreach activities (documented elsewhere on ResearchFish)
Research tool.
This pipeline has resulted in collaborations (some on responsive mode grants), research agreements, and further funding (e.g. from the 2Blades Foundation, USA).
a. Webinar with 50+ attendees, from a range of organisations, in UK, including government (Department of Health), third sector organisations (NSPCC), government agencies (Public Health Observatory), and international organistions (Research Data Centre (Canada), National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD), Finnish Data Archive
b. Expressions of interest and enquiries from international organisations wishing to carry out similar work utilising our workflows, e,g IPUMS and USC Stevens Neuro-imaging and Informatics Institute
Basis for our paper Bruno et al (2015, Neuron) on mapping the locomotion system of the sea slug Aplysia
In addition to this software an open-source library of test cases is being prepared for validation purposes (as part of an EC COST project).
This software is available for sites to evaluate the effectiveness of the software. This faciltates cross-comparison with other approaches.
The library forms the basis of additional developments by the PI and collaborators.
33 reads in research gate
so far 95 reads in research gate
It is too early to assess impact; this will become possible in 2-3 years' time.
It is too early to assess impact; this will become possible in 2-3 years' time.
Stat-JR has been downloaded by 400+ users so far and cited 4 times so far
Used by many users and beginning to be cited
- Increased opportunities for the creation of app-based interventions (e.g. by junior researchers, unfunded research) 
- Promotes collaboration amongst the research community and avoids reinventing the wheel - intervention components can be shared, adapted and recycled
- Offers the potential to widen access to behaviour change support / health information and advice by members of the public 
- Functionality offers the potential to improve the implementation and delivery of health behaviour interventions (e.g. harness context-aware sensing to deliver just-in-time interventions, use of notifications/prompts to encourage user engagement).
Two papers, three presentations, several workshops on the application of BEEHAVE.

EFSA review (2015) of whether BEEHAVE is suitable to develop for risk assessment of multiple stressors. Concluded that it should be developed for such use.
We also provide experimental results that show that dependency based embeddings can outperform standard window based embeddings in many natural language processing tasks. Specifically, for three different classification methods: a Support Vector Machine, a Convolutional Neural Network and a Long Short Term Memory Network; the use of our dependency based embeddings improve on question classification, sentiment analysis and relation classification tasks.
We were awarded an EPSRC ARCHER award (2015) to develop the programs further. Without these programs the resolution of our analysis would be much worse, as the second best software that does the same analysis is inferior in several aspects.
Use of this software made it possible for us to detect an intermediate state in the process of receptor activation and our new understanding of partial agonism would not have been possible without it. We have scientific visitors from all over the world that come to learn about the programs
Development of a University spin-out company.
Any MicroManager supported cameras and other ancillary microscope components (e.g. filterwheels, shutters, etc) can be easily incorporated into the OPT acquisition software.
This has already influenced the design of the new Zooniverse platform, Panoptes.
Positive user feedback.
MORSE retrievals of MIPAS data are used in the Ozone CCI intercomparison and validation of ESA MIPAS products.

Adapted versions of MORSE have been used to simulate aircraft observations and for the end-to-end simulator of the PREMIER candidate mission for ESA Earth Explorer programme.
just launched
Not yet known.
As a result of this development NEODAAS Dundee successfully demonstrated capability to receive from Oceansat-2 and an agreement was then concluded with ISRO to purchase proprietary higher-level processing software and data reception/distribution rights.
Discovered security vulnerabilities in Yahoo!, Twitter, Wordpress and lots of other websites.
We hosted 2 internships from France and attracted several Imperial College undergraduate students to contribute to the code.
The Urban Roller Coaster was exhibited at the Grand Design Live Exhibition at the Excel Centre in London 6th-11th May 2014. The event attracted around 6000 participants each day. The exhibit was also shown at the Research Methods Festival 2012 with approximately 800 delegates.
MetTeL has been used in significant ways in a variety of major case studies with different collaborators.
This is a research tool and has enabled the research for all of my publications.
Please refer to physicist users of QUIP.
? Rahwan, I., Dsouza, S., Rutherford, A., Naroditskiy, V., McInerney, J., &amp; Venanzi, M., et al. (2013). Global manhunt pushes the limits of social mobilization. IEEE Computer. Get Bibtex Citation 
? McInerney, J., Rogers, A., &amp; Jennings, N. R. (2012). Improving location prediction services for new users with probabilistic latent semantic analysis. In 4th International Workshop on Location-Based Social Networks. Get Bibtex Citation Download as PDF 
? McInerney, J., Stein, S., Rogers, A., &amp; Jennings, N. R. (2012). Exploring periods of low predictability in daily life mobility. In Mobile Data Challenge by Nokia Newcastle upon Tyne, UK: Nokia. Get Bibtex Citation
We used the updated CLiC in a workshop for teachers illustrating classroom activities. This workshop was jointly organised with the AQA.
This software is still in development phase.
The research is not finished yet. It is still a prototype and it has not been released publicly. It is currently being used for th project's experiments. Once fully tested and completed it will be released in the public domain as open-source software.
In use by MRC, AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, BT, InnovateUK
The tool has not yet been properly tested.
Not aware of impact.
Public and industry awareness of potential for creative innovation and knowledge exchange in the designer fashion sector, through case study projects
Data from several cohort studies have been processed with these scripts, including the accelerometry data from UK Biobank (100k triaxial waveform acceleration files)
A number of downloads within the UK and worldwide.
SysMIC training has contributed to some publications, in particular for participants on module 3.
PhenoImageShare (PhiS) is an online cross-species, cross-repository tool enabling semantic discovery, browsing and complex annotations of phenotype images. PhIS provides web tools that support the discovery, search and sharing of these annotations and associated metadata and genotype information. The tools also allow for submission or registration of new image instances and their annotations. Support for submissions via pipelines will also be provided in future releases.
This software has been a major driver for our own research. A preprint is already described below.
Many groups are using this product to standardize foci count in cytological preparations.
The software has not yet been distributed. Extensive tests are being carried out.
Published a number of research papers that describe learnings related to the manifestation of trust in the highways maintenance sector. This system was used as a tool to further explore trust in the highways domain.
The appication has been visited by over 3300 people from 99 countries.
publication generated great media coverage
The code has been used for teaching as well as for research data collection. We do not know the total number of users, but have been in contact with over 50 people using the code.
It is still too early to see an impact, but a publication on the methods of this library has been favorably reviewed and published in a high impact (IF 3) journal on earth observation and geoinformation.
product 1) Academic papers submitted/published using GraphColl. 2) Hundreds of users of GraphColl internationally.
None to date, the software was only released recently.
No notable impacts as yet
The software is being used in the European seventh framework project NoTremor (http://notremor.eu/notremor/)
This software has been downloaded &gt;90 times and is being used by a number of independent groups, including the United States Geological Survey.
This program has allowed us to test a relationship between topographic gradient and sediment flux that will be used in erosion modelling in the future.
The software has significantly changed the way we approach our research and has opened new research directions. For example, it is being used to show how regulatory genes control the rates and orientation of tissue growth during the early stages of stem development. The method is also being used for the quantitative analysis of floral bud growth in cereals, in collaboration with Scott Boden (JIC) - this is expected to impact on research that is directly relevant to crop yield.
Wide spread use and application of research outputs to deliver service improvements and efficiency of operation and maintenance of drinking water distribution systems.
The 'Living Life and Doing Things Together' self-management app will aim to enrich everyday life and neighbourhood integration and include a focus on material (such as tips and cues) to support: 'Communicating Everyday'; 'Maintaining our Social Life'; 'Managing Household Tasks'; and 'Planning to Go Out and About'
Better communication between remote sites
ONETEP is continually developed and new, updated versions are released on an annual basis. The developments associated with this grant were released during the period of the grant, between 2009 and 2013. It is one of the leading codes of its kind in the world and unique in being sold commercially: in 2004 it was adopted by Accelrys (now Dassault Syst&egrave;mes BIOVIA), a leading scientific software company, as the flagship for a new international Nanotechnology Consortium of mainly industrial and government partners, leading to its launch as a new product within the Materials Studio suite of software in 2008. An inexpensive academic license is also available worldwide direct from Cambridge Enterprise Ltd. Total revenue from ONETEP to date exceeds $4.5M from over 200 organisations worldwide.
This tool is used for teaching and for research in various institutions worldwide
n/a
Greatly reduces error in determining origin location of radar observations.
publication
GPflow is publically available. The authors James Hensman and Alexander G. de G. Matthews are both using it to create research papers.

Other third party users have downloaded and use the software in there research.

GPflow allow a Bayesian nonparametric model, namely the Gaussian process, to be implemented on multiple distributed GPUs.
This has been one of the first tools of this kind - we have received positive feedback our industrial partners, who are very likely to seek adoption upon the completion of this project.

This DfMA Decision Making Tool evaluates the impact of consequential decisions from the manufacturing up to assembly in a multi-objective DfMA project. In DfMA projects, the main objectives are to minimize makespan and cost while maximizing safety, which is included in this tool. Safety is maximized by minimizing the number of on-site workers on congested construction sites. Using the multi-objective GA-based optimization model implemented in this tool, optimal solutions for different levels of prefabrication can be determined and compared with respect to overall time and cost.
Some downloads and interest. Too early for notable impact.
May be adopted by water companies and resource management agencies world wide
No significant impact to date
First disprover for separation logic. Opens up potential new applications in speeding up verification and automatic proof search, and in automated theory exploration.
To date, the developed software has only been evaluated with a small user group of parents. They have used the prototype to maintain a digital record of daily behaviours, exhibited by one or more of their children. 

Qualitative feedback (please see key findings description section) supports envisaged benefits of use of this tool as an interactive assistive technology for streamlining and augmenting data collection procedures within the home environment and / or other pertinent environment, such as the classroom. 

Initial findings from this research have been reported at the 12th International Conference On Smart home and health Telematics (ICOST), held in Denver, USA. Please refer to the Engagement Activities section for further information.
The developed web tool automates many of the manual processes currently employed by parents and Behaviour Analysts (BAs) within a home-based autism intervention setting. Specifically, the tool provides instant visualisation of recorded data through the provision of a user driven user interface that aggregates, summarises and showcases clinically important patterns in behaviour. These visualisation services alone offer significant potential for increasing BA's ability to discover behaviour patterns and to subsequently introduce more timely home-based intervention treatments. 

The visualisation service is further supported via a data mining service that highlights (based on the application of association rule modelling) the 'predicted' causes and effects of particular behaviour by mining previously recorded data from one or more individuals with autism. The service, while requiring further validation through longer user evaluations to generate more data, has the potential to reduce the workload of BAs by supporting them with functional analysis of a child's behaviour.
Currently used by an estimated 10-20 commercial sector users per day and 80-100 academic users.
The software has been used in performances. Various composers have expressed interest in composing a piece for the system and this will be explored in the coming months.
BASiCS is accompanied by two methodological papers: Vallejos, Marioni and Richardson (2015, Plos Comp Bio) and Vallejos, Richardson and Marioni (2016, in revision for Genome Biology). BASiCS has been already used in several case studies including the comparison of gene expression patterns between CD4+ T cells across different related mouse species, during ageing and activation of naive cells (Martinez-Jimenez, Eling et al, 2016, in preparation). Additional high-impact outcomes are expected from a collaboration with Anne Ferguson-Smith lab (University of Cambridge). The software is freely available in github (http://github.com/catavallejos/BASiCS) and will soon be submitted to Bioconductor (one of the most popular repositories of open source software for bioinformatics) to improve visibility and impact.
R2GUESS has been used either as an intermediate tool in a larger pipeline for fine mapping (DOI:
10.1371/journal.pgen.1005272) or to detect associations in complex highly correlated data sets (DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2014.07.032).
No actual Impacts realised to date
We are using this evaluation internally across projects, but we plan to release the python library open source for the community to provide statistical evaluation to machine learning tasks.
Walking Through Time became a quick hit that demonstrated the potential for mashing up different maps and geographic data on the Apple iPhone.
1. Speed, C. 2012 Walking Through Time: Use of Locative Media to Explore Historical Maps, in Mapping Cultures, Palgrave Books, London. pp. 160-180.
2. Speed, C. 2012 Mobile Ouija Boards. In On Heritage. Edited by Giaccardi, E. London: Routledge. pp.179-196
The app can be downloaded for free from the Apple App Store
LB3D has been used to study self-assembly of cubic phases, micro-mixing, flow through porous media, fluid surface interactions and other problems in complex fluidics. In addition, we have implemented the moment propagation method in LB3D, which allows us to efficiently measure the effective diffusion, dispersion, and other transport properties of ionic species in electrokinetic flows. These developments have enabled us to reveal interesting phenomena in charged rocks, namely a non-monotonic dispersion coefficient and a crossover in the effective diffusion of charged tracers. The publication of these novel scientific insights is currently under preparation [Schiller and Coveney]. This research has benefitted considerably from the generous allocation of computing time on ARCHER through UKCOMES. Dr. Schiller will continue to develop and use LB3D at Clemson University, USA, thus broadening the international scientific impact of LB3D. Furthermore, the LB3D code is one of the application codes in the European H2020 Compat project http://www.compat-project.eu/, where it will be used to enable bleeding edge simulations for computational materials science research on emerging exascale HPC systems.
We will begin public stargazing events over the internet.
The work has resulted in consistent predictions of near field jet dynamics and turbulence statistics from all three different codes. This indicates the fact that the physical model we use in this project is independent of the choice of a numerical solver.

A summary of the work has recently been submitted to the 11th International ERCOFTAC Symposium on Engineering Turbulence Modelling and Measurements (awaiting acceptance).
The notable impacts resulting from the application of the software is the generation of real-world applicable decision support outputs which directly inform the current draft planning documents for a number of Western Australian recovery catchments.
None as yet
Request from researchers to access the data analysis algorithm
Successfully applied in the study of AMD funded by The Dunhill Medical Trust.
All impacts of EWA - see other criteria
The document forms the basis for the Ethno-ornithology World Archive, going live in 2015. It is available to the group on the Wideawake wordpress site, which is being used to collate working of the group. For access to this and to Infodev, which hosts ongoing work on the design team, please contact the PI and we shall grant access.
16009 volunteers have registered in the Join Dementia Research (JDR) service, of whom 4698 are enrolled in studies. The business-as-usual function has transferred to the Clinical Research Network coordinating centre. Development is supported by NHSE via SBRI funding. Growth of JDR is currently supervised by the office of the National Director for Dementia Research.
The amount of data downloaded from EMPIAR has grown to 13TB on average per month
A paper describing this software is currently being written and the software will be made publicly available.
The SHARC Locative Media framework is underpinning the locative media experiences associated with the &quot;Streets of Mourning and Community Memory in Lancaster&quot; (see follow on funding)
There have been various plug-ins developed for use in Horizon projects such as Relate: enables artists to engage with communities about energy and climate change by developing a series of playful, creative activities involving data capture, visualisation and comparison.
.
.
This service / soft wear has only recently been made publicly available on the web. It has however been used in a wide range of eventual and activities in a locally available form. We are unsure as to how much demand for the tool we will experience (this is part of our research question). We do know that it has been used with very positive effects in a wide range of workshops and in 2 conferences led by the CX project.
Better coordination of trial conduct
Use of multivariable control to address combined longitudinal lateral vehicle dynamics control near the limit of handling, as reported in relevant publication.
Can theoretically replace current turbine models used in commercial engine design software, which currently require map data files to predict performance.
It is too soon to know the impact of DISSECT. From our point of view it allowed us to improve the prediction accuracy of complex traits substantially.
The above paper has been accepted for presentation in the UK-Ireland Planning Research Conference 2015 in London 9-11th of September 2015. 

Preliminary findings from the app work were also presented in the AAG2015 in Chicago 21-25th of April 2015: AAG Panel 2540 The Ecosystem Approach: A new tool for Urban Development? 

We have also secured funding to continue working with the app to record experienced environmental quality in Brazil. This is an ESRC-CONFAP co-funded collaboration and research project entitled ADEPT: developing the ecosystem approach to drive positive urban transformations
in the context of intersecting vulnerabilities. 

In terms of impact, the Woodberry Down estate is a hub of regeneration and social housing development and we've had a lot of interest from the local Manor House Development Trust who have been an important gate keeper helping us recruit participants. The app is also being trialled by the Genesis housing association that operates in the area and I have introduced the app and preliminary findings to the board of Woodberry Down Community Organisation, Berkeley Homes and Genesis as well as Hackney Council. While no specific impact has emerged yet, there appears to be interest in our findings and in appropriating the app for different local uses.
A number if hits were made on this site (which at the time of writing is undergoing maitainance).
Bela has gained significant traction amongst researchers, musicians and hobbyists in the 2014-16 period. 

On 29 February 2016, we launched a Kickstarter crowdfunding campaign for Bela, seeking &pound;5k to build and distribute the hardware. We exceeded our funding goal in less than 4 hours (out of a 32-day campaign) and as of one week later, we have raised more than &pound;31k with over three weeks remaining. So far there are 320 backers of the campaign, and we have received invitations to collaborate from major academic institutions (IRCAM in France, STEIM in the Netherlands) and industry (ROLI, who are interested in supporting their JUCE environment).

Meanwhile, since 2014 we have held 10+ workshops on Bela and/or the D-Box instrument including 2 workshops at the Sonar music festival, a workshop at the NIME 2015 conference (Baton Rouge, LA, USA), an Audio Music Hackathon sponsored by Harman Audio, and an Accessible Music Hackathon with the charity Drake Music (held at QMUL). At this point (excluding the Kickstarter campaign) roughly 30 people in Europe and North America (majority researchers, some industry members, some musicians) have bought Bela hardware from us.
It is expected that the project will help to inform decisions regarding how to store, process and share metadata and feature data from licensed audio collections.

The project supports ongoing development of a Proof of Concept mobile app which creates playlists and music recommendations by interacting with a server back end.

Development of server middleware which utilizes the SPARQL endpoint rather than a company-specific database is ongoing. Using the SPARQL endpoint will enable the Proof of Concept mobile app (see 12) to access audio feature data from multiple collections, rather than the single collection used to date.
The code is under continuous development but will be used in subsequent publications related to the grant.
The paper has been cited 10 times since 2012.
The paper has been cited 22 times since 2012.
open science community
KRoC provides a demonstrator providing proof-of-concept technology for performance scalability (w.r.t. the number of cores) of complex concurrent systems (including real-time and complex modelling). Although occam-pi is (regrettably) not a `mainstream' system language, the mechanisms developed for its implementation -- that provide efficient and multicore scalability -- and for the verification of the concurrent behaviour of its programmed systems provide targets for mainstream technologies to achieve. Published papers (listed as outcomes from our EPSRC `CoSMoS' research grant) explain the mechanisms developed for this.
This is a new international standard aimed at facilitating the sharing and validation of reconstruction algorithms.
The associated paper was accepted to the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2016).
Gives coaches and athletes a more robust tool for monitoring their performance in real time, as well as having the functionality to look back on previous efforts.
Ability to monitor and store results from elite athletes using the system to monitor their performance and provide coaches with information to assist them make training program decisions.
Public use
xx
It was subsequently refactored and incorporated in the development of semantic agent system software and used as part of the evaluation for 'SerenA'.
None yet.
None yet.
Over 300 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort
The SysMIC Module 1 materials form the foundation the entire SysMIC project. By November 2014 over 1,000 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community - will have used these training materials to improve their research effectiveness.
The SysMIC Module 1 materials form the foundation the entire SysMIC project. By November 2014 over 1,000 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community - will have used these training materials to improve their research effectiveness.
Over 50 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
Over 50 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
The SysMIC Module 2 materials form the advanced training component of the SysMIC project. By November 2014 over 100 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community - will have used these training materials to improve their research effectiveness.
Over 50 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
It is being included in a wider Galaxy-based pipeline GIO developed by Prof Conrad Bessant at QMUL, with whom we collaborate. This should increase its exposure to the proteomics community.
Too early for impact to have been realised.
Too early to have substantial impact. According to reports several crystal structures were refined using this tool.
A paper describing this software is under preparation.
Private sector practitioners have used the website to access climate data
The media has used it to assess trends in rainfall data in relation to flooding in the NW of the UK
Scientists Divided Over UK Flooding | The Global Warming: www.thegwpf.com/scientists-divided-over-uk-flooding/
Software has been used by researchers in academia and industry.
Public use
Not yet applicable.
None yet known
None as yet
None yet known
Happerley Farmed Knowledge exchange partnership
Happerley Farmed Knowledge exchange partnership
Source code vailable for use by the public
Were able to experiment and provide LBE access to the Internet to PAWS participants. Demostrated that LBE service is a feasible approach to provide Internet access to the hard-to-reach communities.
Key impacts: 
• Standardisation of the methodology and automation of the calculation process reduces the processing and analysis cost of running an collision risk calculation by approx. 90%, from an estimated &pound;336k for a single wind farm development to approx. &pound;36k, according to Marcus Cross of Scottish Renewable Power, plus increases regulator and developer productivity by reducing the discussion time required in the consenting process.
• Will provide more realistic and scientifically credible estimates of collision numbers due to the inclusion of uncertainty and variability in the output figures. Currently only a point estimate is produced. The most significant impact is likely to be realised when considering cumulative impacts of multiple wind farms, such as those in the North Sea.
The software is widely used by the community and regularly downloaded.
We are currently working on applying this with collaborators to Sao Paulo, Brazil and Tennessee, USA.
hh
The app and survey were deployed and used during the open day event which is documented as a separate research outcome.
HAART was made available for free download in Aug 2015. HAART significantly improves the conventional workflow of impulse response capturing and acoustic analysis, and therefore it is expected to hugely benefit academics, students and researchers in the field of room/hall acoustics, psychoacoustics and spatial audio.
Networking and interest from companies
Interest from many regional organisations in its use including The Lightbox, Watts Gallery and Visit Surrey.
allowed rhythmicity analysis of epileptiform activity
Not known.
Not yet
A user base has been started, which is expected to grow as the code develops
Use in subsequent publications, inspired new developments in Maple
Algorithms are now used routinely in several collaborating labs (and are/will be made publicly available upon publication), and implemented in custom free software by a Swiss SME (3Brain GmbH) that develops high density MEAs.
Spike detection and sorting software is now in use in several labs worldwide.
This is actually a continuous output as JABAWS continues to be maintained and developed as part of the award. JABAWS web services are used by thousands of scientists across a broad range of fields so the impact is very broad.
High Impact
Featured in a variety of newspaper online portals and other websites.
Greatly increased awareness and use of the datasets included. Higher quality map production from users.
The software led to a more comprehensive analysis of uncertainty impacts on adaptation decisions
Users of the Greendoors app were able to access additional information about retrofitting measures, thereby making the research process much easier.
The use of this app in a rural rather than urban environment further allowed the research team to investigate its benefits and limitations, while also introducing the technology to a new audience.
The impact from the project will mature over time and will be enhanced with additional modifications of the ViPER toolkit as it develops into a beta stage of release. The impact thus far has been in bringing the different end-user communities together to agree on a structure for a decision-support-tool to inform on diffuse microbial pollution.

The ViPER calculator mode provides a useful tool and allows user defined scenarios, which was welcomed and does provide immediate impact in terms of on-farm advice that can be provided. No participants were aware of a freely-available product that provides information of temporal patterns of E. coli accumulation on pasture as governed by faecal excretion and E. coli die-off.

The most significant impact will arise once the final remaining bugs are fixed, and final modifications implemented, in turn allowing for a wider roll out of the ViPER platform to farm advisors, perhaps most notably the Catchment Sensitive Farming Delivery Team. They acknowledge that a number of their priority catchments in England have FIO pollution issues and that ViPER could help develop farmer understanding.
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
Potentially, the software can be embedded into Lineview's product portfolio and be customised for other products. At this stage, this can only be corroborated by them.
MU-CSeq outperforms other concurrency verification tools and has won the 1 gold and 2 silver medals in the concurrency category of the last 3 editions of the international software verification competition SV-COMP.
The software is not yet used in the domain but it has led to new interest by companies and other researcher groups.
This is a new piece of software so take up so far is limited.
PRQ has enabled two studies to be completed rapidly: Ashton &amp; Kiddle et al., (minor revisions), and Baird et al., (manuscript in preparation). It has been advertised at Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC) 2014. It will be further advertised in Ashton &amp;amp; Kiddle et al. I will then monitor citations to track future applications of PRQ.
The platform was used by participants in the project trials. However elements of it are freely accessible.
In progress
nil yet
Nil yet
The software describes and allows one to analyze some of the processes of the supporting organisation.
Application downloaded by over 500 people; average review score 4.8/5
The development of an innovative digital transformation programme through the co-production of the platform and its collections
The tool enabled industry experts and stakeholders to explore data and risk dynamically with the results shown through live web-mapping interfaces. There is no other tool, to our knowledge, which allows this level of integration or numerous data sources and insight in this field.
We have moved the underlaying technology stack into a more modular modern design. When MetaboLights was first built, we successfully based the repository on the existing ISA data model. Our experience has been that this was in great need of modernisation and was rather cumbersome to maintain. 
To enable online edit of the primary metadata files, we also needed to have a system less dependent on the database model and more focused on the main ISA-Tab files. Our current WS reads all the data, but we are still implementing full CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) features. This is currently happening as part of our curation tool and online editing of metadata. 

Please note that the WS URL in the example gets the metabolite annotation file for the first assay for study MTBLS1
In the 9 months following its launch it has acquired more than 1200 users, of whom 500 are in the US, as the largest user. 
This was the result of a 'Move-it-online' webinar/course that provided walk-through videos, exemplars, activities, and discussion forums on the use of the tool.
It has been featured in several keynote lectures at international conferences.
We cannot track all usage, but we do know it is being used for
(i) Singapore Institue of Management, in a workshop for their international online tutors.
(ii) a UCL-IOE institutional project to understand teacher workload for online and blended learning courses (CRAM). This should enable us to give some time to developing the user community, which really needs further funding to maintain and expand it.
(iii) the Skills Funding Agency, to advise colleges and providers on costing blended learning (CRAM).
Extending the state of the art in planning with preferences
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
Various groups have been using versions of GenLouvain since 2011, and it has been used in various publications by a diverse group of authors.
None yet.
Too early to say, as the software has just been published.
It is still too early, the tool was released about a month ago.
We have had a number of emails from workers around the world who are using the software and have used it ourselves to analyse high throughput sequencing data.
Will help collaboration and communication with numerous collaborators
Our Contact Map prediction method was ranked as the best ab-initio method in the CASP9 protein structure prediction competition
The product is just launched so any impacts are not yet available to report
Datasets are freely available for research purposes and the web tools make them easy to understand and analyse.
Over 5000 active users of the catalogue to find and download datasets.
The original online images were launched in 2012 and are used by most UKCS hydrocarbon operators and service companies because of the quality and ease of use of the images. They are an important tool for improving models and therefore reducing risk. During 2015, the core photography facility was brought online at Keyworth and the backlog of unphotographed UKCS core eliminated.
LDAK is free-to-use software, available for other researchers to perform the analyses I have developed. I provide LDAK at www.ldak.org. In the last year, the website has been accessed over 6000 times, and the software downloaded over 200 times. LDAK has been cited in over 100 publications, and I receive requests for support on a daily basis.
The POWkist demo highlights linked data technology in historical / archival contexts.
This software is being adopted by other academics and some industrial partners are also using it.
So far over 20 unique organisations have registered to use the software.
The ABM simulation has been demonstrated in TfL.
The number of submissions to the PRIDE database increased. In addition, user experience was much better when compared with the original PRIDE Converter tool. PRIDE Converter Tool is now (11/2014) used by the vast majority of data depositions to the PRIDE database, &gt;700 in 2014.
Raw intensity data from GWAS panels can be used to model association between CNV and phenotype using both family and independent samples. The new implementation 2.0 have been used also for additional projects (non IgAN) in our lab, including the identification of association between CNV at the AMY1 gene and obesity susceptibility.
The package has been downloaded by users.
Currently we have not measurable impacts.
Over 100 researchers have conducted evaluations of their software using the tool.
see info on RangeShifter model
By August 2014, BiForce has been downloaded by 129 users, applied in several studies of epistasis published with interesting signals and pathways.
none
Pubications. Further grants. Preliminary industrial adoption.
-
Publications. Further funding. Preliminary industrial adoption.
This visual display and experimental control software has underpinned our ability to generate the necessary visual stimuli and control paradigms to gather the experimental data in our acute and behaving primate work. The software is now also being used by one of our collaborators on the project.
DOI: 10.1016/j.cpc.2014.07.011
Demonstrated internationally and software now made available to particular community group
The app is already being used in a variety of care homes across Bristol. Our partners Alive! are working with us to train staff to use the app across the South west and South east. Since June 2015 we have seen approx 200 downloads of the app from across the globe
Rolls Royce are currently testing this software for internal use
Code to log and distribute error information for maintenance and administration purposes
RFID PLC Code
The HAT APIs form part of the technology behind the Hub-of-all-Things (HAT) that allows individuals to flatten, contextualise, bundle and exchange all types of personal data. All this tech exist within a trust framework of a personal data exchange ecosystem, hence allowing permitted exchange of personal data with other individuals or HAT-enabled organisations. These have been released to the wider public and made freely available, to reflect the nature of the project's public funding.
The adoption of RFT should reduce market inefficiency, lower end-prices and increase producers' income. We are currently setting up a trial study in Talcahuano, Chile, in collaboration with the Universidad del Desarrollo (Santiago and Concepcion, Chile). At the moment the trial study is still being set up, therefore we are currently unable to report on any proper impact.
Software is being trialed by collaborative groups in Glasgow (Beatson) and RAL STFC. Both groups are applying this to novel imaging platforms for life sciences.
.
We have had three requests for this script so far
This library allows to experiment on structural uncertainty of hydrological rainfall-runoff models.
Too soon to say as under development and just getting feedback from project partners on its content, but is publicly available on website for people to give feedback
The availability of the open source software within R, the widely used free statistical software environment, has simplified its dissemination and encouraged others to try the method out.
No impact yet.
While the method is still under evaluation, it has already received noticeable interest from the community, with two workshops having been dedicated to its presentation the &amp;quot;Genepi workshop&amp;quot;, London, UK 2013 and the &amp;quot;pre-ESCAIDES workshop on molecular outbreak epidemiology&amp;quot;, Stockholm, Sweden, 2013.
This package is currently the object of publication to be submitted in 2016.
The HTS toolkit is used worldwide by both academic and commercial organisations, such as Microsoft, Nuance, Toshiba, Pentax, and Google. The number of downloads of HTS exceeds 10,000 and various commercial products using HTS are on the market. Therefore, this toolkit is a very influential platform for me to disseminate outcomes and form an immediate pathway to impact.
The model is used by groups in Bristol, Berkeley, Reading, Exeter, Durham, Beijing, and Brussels and has resulted in 10 scientific publications. It has been selected as the ice dynamics component of the UK Earth System Model UKESM1
Popular software for PET analysis
goWSB is holding a National Walking School Bus Competition to coincide with national walk to school week in May 2016. The app is being promoted to schools on the back of this (http://www.gowsb.com)
The app has been trialled on tourist communities in Dorset and has spawned two derivatives 6ST Travel and LinkLocal for aiding collaborative travel and transport decision making in other types of community.
The 6ST Oxfam app was used to investigate how smartphones could be used in a charity community to better manage the vehicles and stock in the network. Elements of the app are currently being take forward by Oxfam working with Keyfort Ltd.
The app was featured in several major art exhibitions and attracted media attention
Beta version will be released in Spring 2016, and the first outputs are part of a publication in preparation: Cox SR, Bastin ME, Ritchie SJ, Dicke DA, Liewald DC, Munoz Maniega S, Redmond P, Royle NA, Pattie A, Valdes Hernandez MdelC, Corley J, Aribisala BS, McIntosh AM, Wardlaw JM, Deary IJ. Brain cortical characteristics of lifetime cognitive ageing. It will also be used to illustrate the results of future cortical analyses conducted by CCACE members in both the LBC and UK Biobank cohorts, and also used more widely by other researchers once it becomes available via the CCACE website.
Astropy is used by entire astronomy community.
- Publication: Unlocking the Bottleneck in Forward Genetics Using Whole-Genome Sequencing and Identity by Descent to Isolate Causative Mutations. Bull, K.R., Rimmer, A.J., Siggs, O.M., Miosge, L.A., Roots, C.M., Enders, A., Bertram, E.M., Crockford, T.L., Whittle, B., Potter, P.K., Simon, M.M., Mallon, A.-M., Brown, S.D.M., Beutler, B., Goodnow, C.C., Lunter, G. , Cornall, R.J. PLoS Genetics 9(1) 2013. 15 citations.
Led to:
- 1888 downloads (Mar 2016); 40 citations of Platypus paper
- key involvement in 1000 Genomes project
- involvement in the WGS500 project, which formed the blueprint of the UK government's 100,000 Genomes Project
- a spin out company, Genomics PLC; the first employee was Andy Rimmer, main developer of Platypus
- several other collaborations and publications
This software was taken for further development by a new EPSRC grant Coalgebraic Logic Programming for Type Inference: parallelism and corecursion for a new generation of programming languages for parallelism and corecursion, 2013-2016.
This software was taken for further development by a new EPSRC grant Coalgebraic Logic Programming for Type Inference: parallelism and corecursion for a new generation of programming languages for parallelism and corecursion, 2013-2017.
Publication in Nature Physics.

http://www.nature.com/nphys/journal/vaop/ncurrent/full/nphys3673.html

Press interest:
http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2016-03/udg-teo030216.php

https://www.theguardian.com/science/2016/mar/07/new-simulation-dark-energy-expansion-of-universe-einstein
Vasishtan and Topf 2011 (PMID: 21296161)
Seitsonen et al., 2012 (PMID: 22514349)
Pandurangan et al. 2014 (PMID: 24333899)
Atherton et al 2014 (PMID: 25209998)
Farabella et al 2015 (PMID: 26306092)
Lukoyanova et al 2015 (PMID: 25654333)
An invited paper to a special 50th anniversary issue of IMA J. Appl. Math will describe the background to the software, and its significance. This will aid with impact in the field.
Research prototype.
Provides essential technical infrastructure for musicological project 'The Complete Theoretical Works of Johannes Tinctoris'.
Not applicable yet
This enabled intergenerational sharing - one of the project's original aims - and the production of a valuable resource for Leeds residents interested in WW1 during the Centenary years. It also increased skill sets of project members not familiar or comfortable with the internet or Facebook.
Downloaded by 7 users (Feb 2016)
This field left blank
It is anticipated that, together with publication in the IEEE Trans. Image Proc paper, this code will help publicise the work and help foster future impact
To be launched later this year.
Software is newly released, but has already attracted attention from scientists, broadcasters and industry collaborators as a way to visually integrate multiple datasets.
Possibility to combine geological modelling of a different types of rock, oil fields etc with the particle transport code to investigate the sensitivity of muon tomography for different applications: carbon storage, volcanoes etc.
Enhancing the Patient-Clinician Communication
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
This software forms part of a patent that has been filed
Publication describing the software. Also enabled multiple publications arising from use of the Octopus facility in the Research Complex at Harwell. The software is available for use by facility users.
The software provided new options for the method that solved technical problems in earlier versions.
GOBNILP has been used by a number of researchers. The following is a list of related publications:

Siqi Nie, Cassio P. de Campos, and Qiang Ji. Learning Bayesian Networks with Bounded Tree-width via Guided Search, In AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), 2016.
Meng Sun. Estimating relationships and relatedness from dense genome-wide data PhD thesis, University of Leicester, 2015.
Brandon Malone. Empirical Behavior of Bayesian Network Structure Learning Algorithms, Proc. Advanced Methodologies for Bayesian Networks: Second International Workshop, AMBN 2015, Yokohama, Japan, November 16-18, Springer, 2015.
Yoni Halpern, Steven Horng and David Sontag. Anchored Discrete Factor Analysis . Arxiv 1511.03299, Nov 2015.
Paul Saikko. Re-implementing and Extending a Hybrid SAT-IP Approach to Maximum Satisfiability . MSc thesis, University of Helsinki, Nov 2015.
Janne H. Korhonen and Pekka Parviainen. Tractable Bayesian Network Structure Learning with Bounded Vertex Cover Number . NIPS 2015: Proceedings of the 29th Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2015
Mauro Scanagatta, Cassio P. de Campos, Giorgio Corani and Marco Zaffalon. Learning Bayesian networks with thousands of variables . NIPS 2015: Proceedings of the 29th Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2015
Pekka Parviainen and Samuel Kaski. Bayesian Networks for Variable Groups. Arxiv 1508.07753, August, 2015
Arnoud Pastink and Linda can der Gaag. Multi-classifiers of Small Treewidth. Proc. ECSQARU 2015, LNAI 9161, pp. 199-209, 2015.
Peter van Beek and Hella-Franziska Hoffmann. Machine learning of Bayesian networks using constraint programming. Proceedings of CP 2015, Cork, Ireland, August, 2015.
Vera Djordjilovic, Monica Chiogna and Jirka Vomlel. An empirical comparison of popular algorithms for learning gene networks. Proc. CEB-EIB 2015, 2015
Chris J. Oates, Lilia Carneiro da Costa and Tom Nichols. Towards a Multi-Subject Analysis of Neural Connectivity. Neural Computation, 27:151-170, 2015. (Also Arkiv 1404.1239, April 2014.)
Waleed Alsanie and James Cussens. Learning Failure-free PRISM Programs. International Journal of Approximate Reasoning, 67:73-110, 2015.
Brandon Malone, Matti J&auml;rvisalo and Petri Myllym&auml;ki. Impact of Learning Strategies on the Quality of Bayesian Networks: An Empirical Evaluation. Proceedings of the 31st Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI-15) July 2015.
Mark Bartlett and James Cussens. Integer Linear Programming for the Bayesian Network Structure Learning Problem. Artificial Intelligence. Forthcoming. (Preprint)
Chris J. Oates, Jim Q. Smith, Sach Mukherjee and James Cussens. Exact Estimation of Multiple Directed Acyclic Graphs. Statistics and Computing, Forthcoming. (Arkiv 1404.1238, April 2014.)
Paul Saikko, Brandon Malone and Matti J&auml;rvisalo. MaxSAT-based Cutting Planes for Learning Graphical Models. Proc. CPAIOR 2015
Kustaa Kangas, Teppo Niinim&auml;ki and Mikko Koivisto. Learning Chordal Markov Networks by Dynamic Programming. NIPS 2014.
Chris J. Oates, Jim Q. Smith, Sach Mukherjee. Estimating causal structure using conditional DAG models. Arkiv 1411.2755, November 2014.
Giorgio Corani, Alessandro Antonucci, Denis D. Maua and Sandra Gabaglio. Trading off Speed and Accuracy in Multilabel Classification Proc. PGM 2014, 145-159, LNAI 8754, Springer, 2014. (Proceedings).
Mauro Scanagatta, Cassio P. de Campos and Marco Zaffalon. Min-BDeu and Max-BDeu Scores for Learning Bayesian Networks. Proc. PGM 2014, 426-441, LNAI 8754, Springer, 2014. (Preprint). (Proceedings).
Ilya Korsunsky, Daniele Ramazzotti, Giulio Caravagna and Bud Mishra. Inference of Cancer Progression Models with Biological Noise. Arkiv 1408.6032, August 2014
Lilia Costa, Jim Smith, Thomas Nichols and James Cussens. Searching Multiregression Dynamic Models of Resting-State fMRI Networks using Integer Programming. Bayesian Analysis. To appear.
Nuala Sheehan, Mark Bartlett and James Cussens. Improved Maximum Likelihood Reconstruction of Complex Multi-generational Pedigrees. Theoretical Population Biology. 97:11-19, November 2014.
Brandon Malone, Kustaa Kangas, Matti J&auml;rvisalo, Mikko Koivisto, and Petri Myllym&auml;ki. Predicting the Hardness of Learning Bayesian Networks. In Carla E. Brodley and Peter Stone, editors, Proceedings of the 28th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI 2014) AAAI Press, 2014.
Alberto Franzin. An Integer Programming approach to Bayesian Network Structure Learning. Masters dissertation, University of Padua, April 2014.
Milan Studen&yacute;, David Haws Learning Bayesian network structure: Towards the essential graph by integer linear programming tools International Journal of Approximate Reasoning, 2013
Changhe Yuan and Brandon Malone Learning Optimal Bayesian Networks: A Shortest Path Perspective, Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, Volume 48, pages 23-65, 2013
Pekka Parviainen and Mikko Koivisto. Finding Optimal Bayesian Networks Using Precedence Constraints. Journal of Machine Learning Resarch. vol 14. pp1387-1415, 2013.
Eman Aljohani and James Cussens. Informative Priors For Learning Graphical Models. Proc. AIGM-13, Paris, 2013.
Antonucci A., Corani G., Maua D., Gabaglio S., An Ensemble of Bayesian Networks for Multilabel Classification. Proc. 23rd Int. Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-13)
Brandon Malone and Changhe Yuan. Evaluating Anytime Algorithms for Learning Optimal Bayesian Networks . Proceedings of the 29th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI-13) July 2013.
Eliot Brenner and David Sontag. SparsityBoost: A New Scoring Function for Learning Bayesian Network Structure. Proceedings of the 29th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI-13) July 2013.
Mark Bartlett and James Cussens. Advances in Bayesian Network Learning using Integer Programming. Proceedings of the 29th Conference on Uncertainty in Artificial Intelligence (UAI-13) July 2013.
Waleed Alsanie. Learning Failure-free PRISM Programs. PhD Thesis, University of York, September 2012.
Zhenxing Wang and Laiwan Chan. Learning Bayesian Networks from Markov Random Fields: An Efficient Algorithm for Linear Models. ACM Transactions on Knowledge Discovery from Data (TKDD). 6(3) 2012 10:1-10:31.
Robert G. Cowell. A simple greedy algorithm for reconstructing pedigrees. Theoretical Population Biology. 83 (2013) 55-63.
There is considerable interest from the user community in this novel software; the open source softwrae will allow groups to test the algorithms in their own lab which should build confidence in the developed methods.
Has been used extensively in our lab for identifying novel functional elements encoded within the genomes of economically and medically important viruses such as influenza A virus, porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome, West Nile virus and potyviruses. Many virus functional elements only exhibit a phenotype in animal models. By first identifying and characterizing features computationally, experimental follow-up can be targetted efficiently thus vastly reducing the need for any animal experiments.
YARN is developing a range of partnerships and a growing body of users who are deploying it across a broad range of uses related to research, storytelling and creative practice. We are developing it as a public tools that can provide an open and non-institutional space in which people and organisations can work collaboratively and develop new uses and impacts. It has just been publicly launched and impact will be updated regularly as they develop.

Initial impacts include:

For citizens and communities it means that they can:
1. Tell stories, research cultural and historical themes, create collections, campaign and be creative;
2. Develop links with other people and other communities that share similar interests and concerns;
3. Develop community projects and host collections of community and personal materials including films, photographs and sound files;
4. Keep control of their own intellectual property (IP) by hot linking their own content from third party sites e.g., Historypin, Flickr and 
 Facebook;
5. Explore stories and collections created by other users;
6. Showcase knowledge and personal expertise.

For cultural organisations it means that they can:

1. Feature and promote their collections through the resource without IP transfer;
2. Have access to an open workspace that can create new links to complementary collections and crowd source public expertise;
3. Source content metadata and receive analytics about who is using your content;
4. Run curatorial or research projects and encourage community use of their digital collections.

For researchers it means that they can access:

1. A set of tools through which to run community projects;
2. A place to feature projects and creative project archives;
3. A means of identifying communities they might want to work with;
4. A collaborative partnership with communities and cultural heritage organisations.
The software tool with the CAE Building Blocks methodology have already been used on a number of projects and tasks, including drafting of guidance for the IAEA on the assessment of dependability of nuclear I&amp;C systems important for safety, drafting of templates for arguing about statistical testing as part of the EU Harmonics project, developing cases to address probabilistic modelling of critical infrastructure and particular how one addresses model doubt. We have also used the CAE Blocks plugin on a professional Masters level course at City University London on Information Security and Risk in an Assurance Case module.
The software is employed by approximately 30 groups including NNL and CNNC. It is also being used as part of the programme grant EP/K016288/1.
Currently for internal research use and constitutes a research instrument within the Design Science methodology. Further it is integral to the simulations/games to be conducted.
Internal impacts. The Vault DX artefact acts as a research instrument and simulation environment within the Design Science Research approach for the next stage of research.
This development is now producing some of the first studies of the effect of neutral gas on turbulence in the edge of tokamak devices.
None
Being used to analyse the first variable period X-ray standing wave (VPXSW) data to be measured using photoelectron spectroscopy. VPXSW can be applied to thick adlayers (ca 30 nm) and gives chemical state information on the adsorbates.
This is a prototype software system, which needs further development for more advanced functionality and testing before its full implementation in clinical trials.
The software has been successful in bringing industrial funding and consultancies into the laboratory. Some elements are licensed when used commercially.
Development of biological tools. Biopsy is a tool that performs parameter set synthesis on biological models specified using the Systems Biology Markup Language (SBML) and corresponding time series data.
The monitoring of radar attenuation due to wet radomes is now operational on the UK national weather radar network (since the August 2015 release of the Met Office radarnet system). Initial evidence shows that the new scheme should provide better radar observations of rainfall for use in weather and flood forecasting. However, further trials are still underway.
Demand from researchers and practitioners working with deaf children in other countries for support in developing adaptations for their own languages
SignBanks for other sign languages are emerging based on the BSL adaptation, including Sign Language of the Netherlands and Finnish Sign Language, with proposals underway for SignBanks in other countries.
Much interest from researchers and practitioners in other countries in adapting and translating the assessments;. Very positive response from teachers and speech/language therapists. Many very positive reviews.
Used for most cosmological parameter analyses, including WMAP and Planck.
The software infrastructure underpinned all of our engagement activities.
This tool led to two papers being produced
This adds to the repertoire of source reconstruction methods available for MEG. The main innovation here is that rather than describe the activity at each patch of cortex (&amp;amp;gt;8000) we try to make an empirical estimate of the 20 most likely focal sources underlying the MEG data.
The version 0.5-18 of lavaan has been launched recently, in April 2015, and for this I am not aware/able to report any notable impact yet.
The MOOC Introduction to Steel was released in self-paced format last September, 1st. During these two months, 4,969 participants (see attachment for details) enrolled to the course and 27% of them got an edX Honor Code Certificate. It's amazing to know that 12,568 participants from 133 countreies (1st edition + self-paced format) have enrolled to the course to learn about Steel and its properties.
dolfin-adjoint is the core technolgy enabling the opentidalfarm tidal energy optimisation simulator. It also underlies the adjoint-beat inverse electrocardiosimulator.
- Trialled with Carillion management personnel in Redcar
- Included as a example innovation case study in Carillion's bid process for the Redcar highways maintenance contract
Trialled in Redcar with highways maintenance operatives
During user testing events, many transport planners said this would be useful for their work. In Phase II of the project (2015 - 2017) this tool will be deployed nationwide.
None so far.
the analysis can detect and quantify firing rhythmicity in epileptiform potentials. We found that GABAB receptor activation suppressed bicuculline-induced epileptiform activity in the dentate gyrus by decreasing firing rhythmicity, revealing a novel antiepileptic action for GABAB receptor agonists. Furthermore, this novel approach of using LZ complexity analysis may be further explored to discover new antiepileptic targets.
The DelApp is being used in a study which is evaluating its performance formally. It is also being used in two other studies (NIHR 4AT study, and LUCID - clonidine in delirium study in Oslo). There have been several enquiries about use of the DelApp in studies and in clinical practice.

A US patent application for the test has gone to grant and we expect a similar outcome for the EU application.
--
Initially employed in support of the CEGAD/SWELL project - see http://www.energylocal.co.uk/
The source codes have been used by other domain researchers to construct dynamic combinatorial optimisation problems based on the DBGP generator. The DBGP generator has been used in the IEEE WCCI-2014 Competition on Evolutionary Computation for Dynamic Optimization Problems. For deatils, see the following Technical Report.

M. Mavrovouniotis, C. Li, S. Yang, and X. Yao. Benchmark Generator for the IEEE WCCI-2014 Competition on Evolutionary Computation for Dynamic Optimization Problems: Dynamic Travelling Salesman Problem Benchmark Generator. Technical Report 2013, School of Computer Science and Informatics, De Montfort University, U.K., October 2013. 

This Technical Report is available from http://www.tech.dmu.ac.uk/~syang/ECiDUE/TR-ECDOP-CompetitionDTSP14.pdf.
The source codes have been used by some researchers to compare their optimisation algorithms for solving dynamic travelling salesman problems.
It can/will be used within business process recommendation systems.
Use by multiple research groups to prioritise the investigation of candidate functional variants in positionally implicated regions of the genome.
The early version of 2010 has been applied on the Pang catchment in the UK and on other catchments in Cyprus, Italy and Brazil to study the impact of climate change and land use changes on water resources. The studies highlighted the gap between supply and demand in those catchments up to 2050. Also quantified the possible impact of climate change on water resources. Particular interest was given to impact of changing land use to account for more durum wheat areas in Italy, use of Sugar Cane as biofuel in Brazil on water resources. The results were published and communicated by the National Researchers to their authorities in those countries for actions. More details can be found at:
Ragab et al. 2010, D'Agostino et al. 2010, Montenegro and Ragab 2010, Montenegro and Ragab 2011.
None yet, still in alpha release.
In a nutshell, the framework contains the code for modelling smart homes and communities. Also, it comes with two additional toolkits for optimisation and visualisation for smart home and community data.
Wide international take up of tool, as utilising the W3C Provenance Standard
So far I am not aware of non-academic impacts of this tool.
Improved possibility of using flexible spinning machines in place of conventional spinning machines
PRIDE Inspector is widely used by PRIDE users as a visualisation and basic analysis tool for proteomics open standard formats.
This is used to produce electron vortex beam mask
A CCPBioSim training workshop using this new version of the software will take place on November 25th 2014 at the University of Southampton. Academic and industrial users will attend from the UK.
The software has been adopted by the world wide protein data bank (wwPDB) for the validation of all new structures deposited in the wwPDB.
software was used in a number of applications
New booking system for rail-based holidays for UK travellers.
The software is useful to find polyhedral complexes with certain properties or to prove that they do not exist. This is part of a larger project overseen by Alina Vdovina.
Widely used in chronological research
Graphic user interface for oscilloscope
GPU implementation of a predictive-sparse-decomposition autoencoder; code available online
This method enabled our recent publication &quot;Operon gene order is optimized for ordered protein complex assembly&quot; (Cell Reports, 2016), and is now freely available for anyone to use.
Prediction and control of behaviour and abnormalities in any complex dynamical network, and in particular in those encountered in biology require the development of multivariate predictive models that integrate large dataset from different sources. Although, a large amount of data are being collected on a daily basis, very few methods allow the automatic creation from these data of nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equation models for understanding and (re-)design/control, and an inordinate amount of time is still being spent on the manual aggregation of information and expert development of models that explains these data.

In this context, the problem of reconstruction or identification of biological systems from experimental time series data is of fundamental importance. Yet, the development of general reconstruction techniques remains challenging, especially for nonlinear system identification. We are currently developing new methods to identify both parametric structure and parameter values in nonlinear Ordinary Differential Equation models from heterogeneous datasets. Applications of such nonlinear systems identification methods cover fundamental questions in systems biology, synthetic biology (debugging and design of cellular systems) and modelling of complex dynamical networks.
This outcome was praised by the external examiner. It allowed to fully verify a British railway station using the theorem prover Agda.
Initially this image server has been implemented for the super resolution microscope, but in long term it will serve as a cross-disciplinary imaging platform.
The predicted structural features for sequences are made available via the website
-
STIR is widely used as a research tool with a total of more than 260 citations in journals and conference proceedings. It has been used as the initial reconstruction software for the ClearPET preclinical PET scanner, allowing much faster introduction to the market. The scatter correction component of STIR has been used as tools for evaluation of a 3D method and convinced GE Healthcare to modify their own scatter correction software accordingly.

The current update considerably enhances usability for research purposes. Previous versions of STIR was command-line based. Cluster-based parallelisation using MPI was already available in STIR. However, many researchers prefer to use interactive languages such that it is easier to try new ideas and get easier feedback via data examination. The multi-threading enhancement speeds-up computation time for interactive use.
Nothing to report.
Nothing to report.
In late 2014 the STELAR eLab started to be used to store and harmonise datasets provided by a number of collaborators.
innovative use of 3d modelling in conjunction with CNC tube rolling.
This software allows our data to be collected, in order for our Young Rewired State coders to be able to reflect on it and also to share it with the academic community.
The software has contributed to a number of peer-reviewed publications:

http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2015-007619

http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2014-007504

https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/en/publications/texthunter--a-user-friendly-tool-for-extracting-generic-concepts-from-free-text-in-clinical-research(a6399aef-e020-4466-804b-fb74ac1a9bb9).html

http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(15)60394-4/

https://kclpure.kcl.ac.uk/portal/en/publications/association-of-cannabis-use-with-hospital-admission-and-treatment-resistance-in-people-with-first-episode-psychosis-in-south-london(5db7d7db-5942-4f77-a4bf-73d552319902).html

http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0920996414704499

http://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(14)60279-8/
A conceptual design for a soft open point has been produced, using power electronic switching. It is able to independently control the transfer active and reactive power through its terminals.

Also started to analyse/compare, with software model, the expected network operation and operation with the soft open point.
The software has been used by Western Power Distribution on its Smart Grid Demonstration Project - Solar Bristol, managing energy flows.
Improved and consistent benchmarking of SLiM discovery methods.
unknown as yet
The Dataportal formed a basis for the data management and dissemination tool for the successful WISERD Civil Society large centre bid. The software is being developed to allow access to civil society data relating to the large centre projects and also to data collated by civil society organisations.
SBO is widely used to annotate models encoded in SBML, reason on models, and link mathematical models to their graphical representation.
We are yet to document the impact arising out of this tool
The ISA API is used in a number of projects arising in collaboration with the Oxford eResearch Centre (OERC), notably the COPO project, and is under continued development.
Leakwatch shows that information leakage estimation is possible for large Java programs.
Sire is used in several pharmaceutical companies for applications in drug design and development. This version of the code was used to perform the simulations that were part of the article &quot;Rapid decomposition and visualisation of protein-ligand binding free
energies by residue and by water&quot; Christopher J. Woods, Maturos Malaisree, Julien Michel, Ben Long, Simon McIntosh-Smith and Adrian J. Mulholland Faraday Discussions, 2014,169, 477-499 DOI: 10.1039/C3FD00125C
No specific impacts to report.
It has enabled the production of large quantities of research data.
Platform used in further research in EC FP7 projects such as PARLANCE and SpaceBook.
It has been downloaded over 20 times
This is having a significant impact on video game research, and is currently being adopted by many researchers as a way to develop and test their game AI algorithms, as well as being used in various computer science masters programmes.
The application is open-source. NLP on social media data is hard. Content is often brief, contains mistakes, lacks context, and is uncurated - very different from the well-formed news text that tools typically operate over. TwitIE is a GATE pipeline for Information Extraction over tweets, one of the noisiest forms of social media text.
none
This demo has just been released this year. The source code is available at the demonstration web site.
This tool allowed identification of locus harbouring pathogenic mutation responsible for disease in 2 families (Edwards et al Clin Kidney J 2015 and Levine et al BMC Genomics 2015.)
Ontologies feature in the ourSpaces VRE (used by researchers) and have gone on to inform work in other domains including public transport, environmental data.
The City Dashboard product has been in regular use in the Office of the London Mayor, and has featured in the Guardian and Wired magazine, as well as BBC News and BBC World News. On August 19th, 2013, the BBC reported on the TALISMAN City Dash Board which exists as an ipad wall in the Office of the Mayor of London and on the internet via an app. The dash board collects and collates data such as a pollution, weather and river levels as well as social data, such as what is trending on twitter. March 28 - May 25th 2013 - City Dashboard was on display at the 'Planes, Trains and Drains: London's Booming Infrastructure Business' Exhibition at The Building Centre, 26 Store Street, London. The use of the dashboard at the exhibition was sponsored by the Greater London Authority.
Acknowledged use in other publications e.g: Micromotors Powered by Enzyme Catalysis
Krishna Kanti Dey, Xi Zhao, Benjamin M. Tansi, Wilfredo J. M&eacute;ndez- Ortiz, Ubaldo M. C&oacute;rdova-Figueroa, Ramin Golestanian, and Ayusman Sen
Nano Lett., Just Accepted Manuscript • DOI: 10.1021/acs.nanolett.5b03935 • Publication Date (Web): 20 Nov 2015
Software is available for re-use.
Enables the general public to upload information about the soil where they live, helping to improve BGS's knowledge about the properties of soils and the vegetation habitats that they provide.
Many research groups (for example see http://www.compucell3d.org/) use Cellular Potts Model for theoretical studies of tissue dynamics. Our software has futures missing in other implementation and can be of interest to these groups.
As a result of this project, four new releases of LVB were made during 2015.
So far the only fully anayzed ones are those described in another paper in press in Journal of Geophysical Research (Atmospheres), but the student is continuing research and we hope others will continue after he submits his thesis.
Seven alpha testers tested the program and produced detailed feedback with likes, dislikes and suggestions for further development.
More efficient design, deployment and verification of PLC code.
Has the potential to radically improve the efficiency of the engineering supply chain in the automation sector.
The application is currently being distributed among local communities within Newcastle with a view to wider expansion in the future. We are still in the early stages of distribution and therefore no impact has been recorded.
widened participation
* deployed to students (improvements in learning experience)
* new collaborations created (dundee, NESCent (US and Australia), TGAC)
* creating better gene curations for ants
This project has attracted users and contributors from around the world (others are improving what we set up), while facilitating development &amp; improving maintainability and robustness of the main funded project.
Used in teaching in MSc Advanced Comp Science at Sussex uni.
- This past August, the Rapid Inquiry Facility (RIF) was successfully demonstrated to funders at the Center for Disease Control. It was later shown to a broader audience of state-level public health monitoring groups in the US at the same event. 
- The meeting in Atlanta provided a means of allowing CDC stake holders to provide feedback on how the RIF would eventually deployed to support their own surveillance activities. They were happy with progress on the project and they outlined some features the tool suite would need for it to be adapted to a US context.
- The RIF is not just one software tool, but a suite of related applications which manage different aspects of supporting disease mapping and risk analysis studies. Among the tools is a highly interactive, graphical tool that epidemiologists could use to specify disease mapping studies. - As well, there is a data loader tool that would allow database administrators a way of cleaning and loading population health data sets and geospatial data sets. 
- The CDC showed particular interest in the data loader tool, which has been designed in a way that may warrant it being used in more generic data loading tasks that are unrelated to its original funded use case.
Both the disease mapping study submission tool and the data loader tool were shown as part of live demonstrations in front of a large audience in the CDC's main conference hall. Among those in attendance were both appreciative users who had used previous versions of the RIF, and supportive people who exhibited a keen interest in having new tools that could save them work doing similar kinds of studies.
- The RIF tool suite continues to garner an widening interest from: Dr. Holowaty, Adjunct Professor from the Dalla Lana School of Public Health at the University of Toronto; Frederik Davidsson from the company Geoloc AB in Sweden; Joanne Stares, Public Health Officer at the Public Health Agency of Canada; and public health groups in Belgium.
- The influence of the RIF tool suite may also be felt through efforts that have been made to encourage users to view it as a future community asset rather than just a SAHSU product. To support this end, the RIF team has spent significant effort open sourcing code changes, and publishing design discussions that describe the kinds of informatics challenges it has had to address. 
- The goal of these activities has been to make the development process more transparent to current and future funders, and to eventually provide enough explanation of the tool suite so that its maintenance costs might be able to be spread across prospective collaborators.
The public release was within the past 6 months, so impact is only starting to feed through. I have been contacted by academics using the software to explore homomorphic encryption for the first time, becoming interested in the potential for its use in statistics and machine learning. A startup company, Numerai, have also been in contact and are exploring its use in sharing sensitive data to designers of proprietary algorithms, where both parties require privacy.
This unique software enable to configure integrated renewable energy system for a cost effective manner.
Improvements in image quality/sensitivity and fusion
The software package description and documentation has been published in the Journal of Statistical Software.
Twitter presence for study @nbdem
Still under development. Intended for museum practitioners, students, and the general public.
applied to real athmospheric data
No actual Impacts realised to date
Permits more rapid and efficient cleaning and repair of genotype data from pedigree populations. Greatly speeds the analysis and improves the power of genetic linkage studies.
Using CoCo, we have shown it is possible to sample conformational space more than an order of magnitude faster than using conventional MD. This has led to a new collaboration with a Pharmaceutical company and a grant application is currently in preparation.
Power analysis; Sample size calculations; Randomised Control Trials; Cluster Randomised Control Trial; Covariates; Cost Minimisation; Multiple outcomes; Simulation
These sheets provide sample size calculators to accompany the IFS working paper WP15/17, &amp;quot;Going beyond simple sample size calculations: a practitioner's guide&amp;quot;.
The Menpo project has been used to develop the annotations of the very popular 300VW and 300W (second version) benchmarks. 300VW is the first benchmark for facial landmark tracking methodologies and 300W is the most popular database for facial landmark localisation in arbitrary conditions (used by the majority of the state-of-the-art published in top computer vision venues, such as ICCV, CVPR, ECCV etc.). The menpo project has been demoed in ICCV 2015. Currently the menpo project has hundredths of users both in academia and industry.
Blobsplorer/TAGC plots are now in wide use in genomics. The toolkit has been featured in several courses and publications.
Over 40% of recent entries in the worldwide Protein Data Bank acknowledge the use of this software in the solution of the structures they describe.
This tool has proved to be quite popular amongst the academic community, feedback from members of the community has been very positive for this tool with requests to expand to more codes being quite common. The tool has helped groups that do not have a traditional background in HPC to make sense of the often quite daunting application process for super computing time. Usage statistics from this tool suggest it has been utilised by 1,343 unique IP addresses globally and that users are likely to be making use of this tool for systems that are very similar to ARCHER.
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
New understanding of the viscosity structure of the crust in the region beneath the North Anatolian Fault of Turkey which caused a disastrous earthquake in 1999.
International collaboration, useful tool in the training of PhD students.
The user group of EMPIRE grows rapidly.
They pitched #opencurriculum as a test case to the
University of Ulster, who granted them permission to create an open curriculum
planning process, through the sharing of their course materials via GitHub.
Our step detection algorithms are now used heavily and our method for tracking PC's through time for multivariate signals has proved useful in the analysis of financial markets.
It improves our ability to help students engage with quantitative methods, identify links between quantitative methods and substantive teaching and provides resources
Reductions in carbon use, particularly in government buildings
The developments are currently under evaluation, which includes data collection in both UK and Spain, which have complementary growing seasons. Papers have been submitted to relevant conferences and work continues.
Publication of paper describing the software, now getting cited.
Used by a growing number of researchers to process and analyse their eye-tracking datasets
None to date
None at present; the library is being used for research purposes
None as yet
None as yet
in progress
This visualisation interface has been adopted (and adapted) by several independent projects, including the Hellespont project, funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities and the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft: http://gapvis.hellespont.dainst.org/#index.
ART has been used in a prototype model-based engineering tool under development in Eindhoven, and in use by their commercial collaborators (company confidential).
There are no impacts yet. It has been piloted successfully and is now being used to gather data on our project.
Weekly requests for information resulting from the application featuring in media reports, and also from formal dissemination activities such as a workshop in New Delhi in February 2016.
production of manuscripts for publication
None.
None so far
None
The synthpop package for R facilitates greatly generating non-disclosive entirely synthetic versions of sensitive restricted access microdata (e.g. the UK Longitudinal Studies) that can then be made more freely available for explanatory research and training. This can increase usage and impact of the unique and valuable resources.
The tool has generated interest in the Palladio software engineering community. It is now listed among the official solvers of PCM: https://sdqweb.ipd.kit.edu/wiki/Palladio_Solvers_and_Simulation
We have demonstrated and transferred the tool to our industrial partners (BOC Systems).
The tool as just made available to the research community through GitHub.
The tool as just made available to the research community through GitHub.
Many researchers have requested access to this tool. We are putting in place appropriate licensing to allow that to happen.
The FFEA software is still kept in a private repository. However, we have been collaborating with Toni Collis at the EPCC in different computational approaches, from visualisation of trajectories to performance characterisation and a distributed parallel implementation. 

We plan to release a first version of the software very soon under an Open Source license, together with a technical paper to present the software to the scientific community. We have contacted a number of candidates from Leeds to Canada and Japan that are willing to try the FFEA on their systems. 

The URL below will not work, as the repository is still kept private. However, I could grant access to the EPSRC if they want to visit it.
See above
In collaboration with Butler, algorithm has been downloaded and used by BirdLife Austria to help develop national forest bird index. Discussions about potential use held with organisations in Germany and New Zealand.
After considerable development, the tool was published March 2016. Consequently, at the time of reporting, it is too soon for impacts to have been realised.
New functionality added and the website improved.
Solvaware is being implemented on the UK ARCHER supercomputer and will be available for use by non profit groups
The open source library is available on Github and has been shared with academic collaborators. It is still too early to see a notable impact in their work.
The program is now being used by other researchers to produce research outputs.
Starting to be widely used, as judged from the number of emails I receive about it. Has featured in various publications including two in Chinese: http://www.cjebm.org.cn/Upload/PaperUpLoad/b24bfc39-bb0d-41b9-9f0f-93c3ba90353b.pdf and http://www.cjebm.org.cn/oa/DArticle.aspx?type=view&amp;id=20150818.
The software is at a prototype / proof-of-concept stage and has not yet been used in practice.

However, it has resulted in a number of publications (one peer-reviewed conference paper already accepted and one submitted) including a journal article under development

It was also the inspiration for a new musical work, which will be performed in public in 2016.
It optimise the AD system for a given climatic conditions
It predict the component level temperature within a CPV system and material's effect with the temperature.
Successively passed Technology Gate review with Airbus
Several users in economics and other areas
Too early to say. It was published on-line Sept 2014.
BAM rendering improvements (thanks to Yifei Men)
Improved guideline when viewing base-pair resolution data (thanks to Daniel Rice)
BAM index-index support (thanks to Dan Vanderkam)
Amino acid translations of genes (thanks to Yifei Men)
Added support for exporting bitmap (PNG) images.
BAM and navigation bug fixes.
Better placement of feature labels
There have been some downloads of this module but no references to it as of yet.
This simulation tool could help both researchers and industry to validate different protection control approaches in power system.
Ability to understand weaving techniques
We have a growing list of potential users who we keep up to date with a routine newsletter and make them aware of developments and improvements. We have received more invitations to speak at different events than we can accommodate. Details of accepted invitations are listed elsewhere.
Widespread use of discrete path sampling
Cyclist was entered into and performed well in the new SL-COMP competition for separation logic theorem provers.
The output was actually realised progressively over the entire grant period (2010-2013) and continues in development to date. It was continuously demonstrated, shared and developed from feedback over the period of the grant. It is increasingly used and cited for the purposes stated above and has increasing circulation and impact (to date 1000 users are registered).
Code is online for other researchers to enable full scientific reproducibility of results.
The code is in use at UCL by a graduate student (Andrew Hallam) studying quenches of 2D cold atom systems. Some of these results have already formed part of his first year DTC project. Current work is being prepared for publication and will form part of his thesis.
The code is also in use at BNL as part of a collaboration to study 2D quantum magnets.
We have a user base of several thousand, including most of the major photoacoustic imaging groups from around the world. The question-and-answer forum, which we maintain, is constantly active. Our group (through my colleague Bradley Treeby) has received further funding for related projects in ultrasound therapy based on this software platform. We have also established a collaboration with Brno University of Technology based on the development of this suite for high performance computing platforms.
We will adapt the OpenProof educational system for heterogeneous logic to allow the use of Readith when teaching logic. OpenProof has a worldwide user base, and this will enable us to reach those users, enhancing the educational environment of students and teachers.
The software has been downloaded a large number of times.
Provision of UK-PBC Risk Calculator for patients, practitioners and public to download for information.
By developing a PLC based API, RFID readers can be integrated with existing machines and manufacturing systems that utilise Siemens PLCs for control. Thus, reducing the impact for IT infrastructure and cost of implementing RFID technology within manufacturing.
The EIIS Track portal is key for the dissemination of data collected by RFID portals located on the shopfloor.
It's filtering services have the ability to determine the state of the shopfloor based upon current and previous portal data entry.
Without this software the capturing of RFID performance data from RFID readers was slow and cumbersome. RangeFinder has allowed experiments to be carried out at a much faster pace and with a unified interface.
Received a Distinguished Artifact award at the Joint Meeting of the European Software Engineering Conference and ACM SIGSOFT Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE 2013)
The tool is being cited as being used regularly
The app was used in the creation of a new work for trumpet and string quartet - Albumleaves. Composer, Tom Armstrong, and trumpeter, Simon Desbruslais, were able to share developing ideas via Com-Note. Albumleaves was recorded for release on Signum Classics during 2015. Simon and Tom will be using the data they collected via Com-Note in order to write a paper for publication in the Journal of New Music Research.
Early follow-up discussions with 2x SMEs keen to licence the mobile image recognition App.
The SysMIC Module 3 materials form the independent project component of the SysMIC project.
Approximately 150 students entered SysMIC Module 1 between October 2012 and January 2013 and studied until June 2013. Approximately 55% of entrants had completed the module and received their completion certificate by August 2013.
Over 50 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
Not currently known.
This freely available software provides geneticists with an efficient way to simulate from the coalescent relating individuals sampled from a continuous space.
the platform has currently been under a trial by about 200 participants European-wide. Moorfields Eye Hospital is currently recruiting 50 participants in either a single visit or number of visits over the course of up to 3 month. This will allow us to assess the transformational impact of the advanced technologies in real world terms.
Not known as yet
Used in EU project Des-MOLD to support engineering design
Improved analysis of large data sets associated with use of fluorescence technology
None yet
Not known in detail; personal comments from other researchers suggest software was well received.
This is a web-based case report form (CRF) and randomisation software, which is being used in this randomised controlled trial.
We are currently (March 2016) testing the functionality of the tool with a sample of users. It is hoped that the tool will be of use to any organisation and initiative by creative practitioners in a similar situation as that of the New Bridge Project in Newcastle. Other arts organisations in the UK will be invited to use it and help us adjusting it as needed.
The software was used in the Victorian State Election November 2014 to capture and process votes.
This software provides the first capability to link via a unique mathematical mapping (as developed in associated publications) the regularity of a grain structure generated by Voronoi tessellation and three simple, measurable parameters: maximum, minimum and average grain size; this is the so-called Controlled Poisson Voronoi tessellation. Furthermore, the software can automatically generate cohesive zones along grain boundaries for the first time, including at multiple junctions (as developed in associated publications).
ECMWF is evaluating the ozone data from MetOp-A for assimilation into the CAMS system. 
The MetOp NRT chain is to be developed to include a pre-processor for temperature, humidity, ozone and surface emissivity from IASI, MHS &amp; AMSU-B and processors and additional target species are to be added to the GOME-2 ozone and IASI methane processors.
The system will also be expanded to process co-located Sentinel-5P &amp; Suomi-NPP CrIS data.
PAMELA has been used in hundreds of astronomical research papers.
The code has been provided to our collaborators in Cardiff University who intend to develop a parallel version of the software.
The software has been downloaded 327 times by groups all over the world.
Provided insight into traits of network capacity usage on a LBE access to the Internet.
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
to be included in the Linux kernel by default
None yet known
None yet known
Most read surgical journal on the web, Altmetric top 100 in 2015
Verification of several protocols of interest in networking and security.
Available to be used.
Used by project partners (Newcastle University, Gosling(PI)) and industrial partners.
This the first full-functional Python library wrapping the GoodReads API.
DL_MESO is UKCOMES's flagship open-source software for worldwide distribution: a general purpose, highly scalable mesoscale simulation package for both Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM) and Dissipative Particle Dynamics (DPD) methods [1]. It is written in C++ for LBM and Fortran90 for DPD. It is supplied with its own Java-based Graphical User Interface (GUI) and is capable of both serial and parallel execution using MPI and/or OpenMP. 

DL_MESO was initially developed for the UK's collaborative computational project for simulation of condensed phases (CCP5) during 2003-06. It was subsequently made available to the global community through open access. In a rapidly developing field like mesoscale modelling, the relevance and importance of DL_MESO depend on its continued upgrading in modelling capabilities and computational efficiency on new computing architectures. UKCOMES activities contribute to DL_MESO in three main aspects: (1) incorporation of the latest physical models; (2) assessment and validation of physical models and numerical methods in DL_MESO; (3) adaptation to new software and hardware environments. Briefly, work by UKCOMES is to ensure the accuracy, robustness and reliability of DL_MESO so that it stays at the cutting edge of mesoscale simulation. 

DL_MESO has a global user base. More than 1,100 academic licences for DL_MESO have been granted since its first release in 2004. The current version of DL_MESO (2.6) was released in November 2015 and has 59 users to date. The previous release (version 2.5) had 410 registered users from academia and industry: among them, about 20% were based in the UK, 24% mainland Europe, 19% China, 10% North America and 27% in the rest of the world. Dividing these users among their subject groups, 37% are identified as engineers, 21% physicists, 20% chemists, 12% material scientists and smaller numbers of computer scientists, earth scientists, bioscientists and mathematicians. Examples of applications include catalytic reactive flows [2], water diffusion in proton exchange membrane fuel cells [3] and proton dissociation and transfer using DPD [4].

DL_MESO is being used extensively in a TSB-funded industrial consortium (Unilever, Syngenta, Infineum and STFC's Hartree Centre) for Computer Aided Formulation of new products, using DPD as a heuristic tool for mesoscopic phase prediction to select potential product formulations for laboratory experimentation. 

Current work includes incorporation of various new physical models such as cascaded LBM for multiphase flow [5], a new approach to contact angle hysteresis [6] and kinetic and slip boundary conditions. Co-development with the consortium's other two open-source codes - LB3D and HemeLB - is being considered. Finally, incorporation of GPU and other computing techniques is being explored for new computing architectures, such as Intel Xeon Phi many-core accelerators [7].
1. M. A. Seaton, R. L. Anderson, S. Metz and W. Smith, &quot;DL_MESO: highly scalable mesoscale simulations,&quot; Molecular Simulation 39 (10), 796-821 (2013). DOI:10.1080/08927022.2013.772297
2. C. D. Stiles and Y. Xue, &quot;Lattice Boltzmann Simulation of Transport Phenomena in Nanostructured Cathode Catalyst Layer for Proton Exchange Membrane Fuel Cells,&quot; MRS Proceedings, 1384, 25-30 (2012). DOI:10.1557/opl.2012.322
3. E. O. Johansson, T. Yamada, B. Sund&eacute;n and J. Yuan, &quot;Dissipative particle dynamics approach for non-scale membrane structure reconstruction and water diffusion coefficient estimation,&quot; International Journal of Hydrogen Energy 40 (4), 1800-1808 (2015). DOI:10.1016/j.ijhydene.2014.11.030
4. M.-T. Lee, A. Vishnyakov and A. V. Neimark, &quot;Modeling proton dissociation and transfer using dissipative particle dynamics simulation,&quot; Journal of Chemical Theory and Computation 11 (9), 4395-4403 (2015). DOI:10.1021/acs.jctc.5b00467
5. D. Lycett-Brown, K. H. Luo, R. H. Liu and P. M. Lv, &quot;Binary droplet collision simulations by a multiphase cascaded lattice Boltzmann method,&quot; Physics of Fluids 26 (2), 023303: 1-26 (2014). DOI: 10.1063/1.4866146*
6. J. R. Castrej&oacute;n-Pita, K. J. Kubiak, A. A. Castrej&oacute;n-Pita, M. C. T. Wilson and I. M. Hutchings, &quot;Mixing and internal dynamics of droplets impacting and coalescing on a solid surface,&quot; Physical Review E 88 (2), 023023: 1-11 (2013). DOI:10.1103/PhysRevE.88.023023
7. M. Seaton, L. Mason, Z. A. Matveev and S. Blair-Chappell, &quot;Vectorization advice&quot;, chapter 23 (pp. 441-462) in J. Reinders and J. Jeffers (ed.), &quot;High Performance Parallelism Pearls: Multicore and Many-core Programming Approaches. Volume Two&quot;, Elsevier: Amsterdam (2015).
The app can be downloaded for free from the Apple App Store
Anecdotally, the wiki has become widely used in the CRNT community. This was visible recently at a CRNT workshop in Portsmouth, where we found that a variety of academics from the UK, Europe and North America all regularly use it as a reference tool when writing papers in this area. One expected long term result is a harmonisation of language and basic assumptions across CRNT research communities with somewhat different frameworks and histories, allowing greater scope for collaboration and communication between these communities.
none known
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
No impacts as yet
None so far.
It has been licensed for evaluation to Rocket Pictures.
A lot of universities have used the CKAN portal since it was started, including Leeds, St Andrews, Lancaster, UCL.
SHARE-IT achieved a quality of implementation that makes it fit for use as the basis for a number of different applications. It is currently trialed in India as part of a project aimed to ascertain its cross-cultural viability as well as the computer platform for a neuroscientific intervention aimed to support primary school children in learning counterintuitive concepts in mathematics and science.
Portrait has been demonstrated to a number of care facilities and local authorities to promote its use within care settings. Portrait has been in use a care home for over 3 years.
Too early to say
Currently an alpha quality version demonstrating its power; impact ongoing.
.
Aestheticodes is a now a new to market company that has evolved out of a joint project between Designers and Computer Scientists under the research umbrella of Horizon Digital Economy research Institute at The University of Nottingham. The company offers a programming, APP development and graphic design service. We can produce a full visual branding and interactivity service that is bespoke to each brand or context. Aestheticodes is an unusual company in that it is commercially implementing ongoing research and innovations to bring the customer the most up to date and unique service available.
The software was released to the public and was used at the Nottingham Robin Hood Half Marathon 2013 and the Birmingham Half Marathon 2014.
.
Software being utilised in Nottingham hospitals
Required for accurate reconstruction and model simulation of ocean acid/base chemistry, past ocean acidification and atmospheric CO2.
None as yet
Fourier resampling is a major element of the execution time for Density Functional Theory codes. We have integrated TINTL into ONETEP and have achieved compelling performance results. We are currently working with the ONETEP developers to deliver TINTL to ONETEP users.
One peer-reviewed publication has been produced and 3 further funding applications succeeded. We expect many more impacts over the coming years.
Software is currently a proof-of-concept. A BBSRC Follow-On-Fund grant (BB/N019385/1) was secured to develop a commercial production package based on this technology.
As yet the software has only been tested across three schools but is looking great!
Accurate fitting of ribosome molecules in cryo-EM reconstructions
None yet.
None
We have not yet written up the outputs from the deployment or the design of this except that it derived from design sessions with teenagers.
Significant acceleration of fluid-structure periodic instabilities prediction; ability to predict aero-structural instabilities at transonic Mach numbers efficiently and reliably.
Already written at least three times in the other forms. We supported emergency control rooms in events involving over a million people, including the Glastonbury Festival in 2013 and 2014
The software produced so far should be seen as a proof of concept. The model and the solutions proved to be correct including suitability for our partners in Life Sciences.

However, we still need to make several important amendments to the developed syst
The app has been especially useful in engaging younger visitors to Canons Ashby. Feedback gathered by the visitor manager revealed very positive reactions centred on the independence afforded to the visitor and the feeling that they were actively engaged in exploring the house.
Dialogue is currently underway with a British Motorsports Society (beermountain.com) to trial the Linklocal app at the Le Mans event in France.
Has been downloaded many times. The native mass spectrometry community are giving us great feedback and are enjoying using it.
This allows non-biased identification and quantification and has been used in two of the ongoing studies in my laboratory that will be submitted for publication in 2016.
Lazy-CSeq outperforms other concurrency verification tools and has won the 2 gold and 1 silver medals in the concurrency category of the last 3 editions of the international software verification competition SV-COMP.
Analysis on England and Scottish LS data and Northern Ireland and Scottish data
Two associated publications to date. Used for analyses of the genetics of complex traits
The impact is on this project only at this time. The software is in the process of being released as open source.
New state of the art in planning in expressive domains, which has been widely used in applications.
Associated paper accepted at the IEEE International Conference on Software Testing, Verification, and Validation (ICST 2016)
Demonstration at SemDial 2015 conference.
This software is now being used in several projects in our lab. It lead to our NIPS 2015 paper and it was demonstrated at the IWSDS 2016 conference.
This is the first iteration of a MATLAB application being developed by UBDC's Cambridge University based team. It is currently only available within the project research team, but will contribute to public visualisations and other UBDC outputs later in the project.
Used for Globolakes to produce 1000 lakes' data; contributed to other projects
The model allows the stretch of coastline from Formby Point (Sefton) to Blackpool (Fylde) to be modelled in a consistent way, capturing interactions between the open coast (to north and south) and the Ribble Estuary (in the centre).
Currently undergoing clinical trial.
The manuscript is currently being finalised.
For the creation of the Human protein complexes repository (http://human.med.utoronto.ca/) the standalone version of GOSSTO was used to compute semantic similarities between human genes in the Gene Ontology. This project provided the largest catalogue to date of human protein complexes from cell culture.

Our web tool, available at www.paccanarolab.org/gosstoweb has had over 50 registered users and 70 submitted jobs thus far.
The software package has been used by researchers in several other disciplines (including environmental sciences, electrical engineering, linguistics) and several non-academic organizations (including Amazon, GSK, and the UK Office for National Statistics).
to derive insight and understanding.
As described in the following video lecture, given in Lille (France), July 2015:
http://videolectures.net/icml2015_macdonald_husmeier_mechanistic_modelling/
Too early to say, as the code has just been published.
None yet, it has just been completed.
Professor Rosie Hails, Director of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Science at the Centre for Ecology &amp; Hydrology, said,&quot;The UK Lakes Portal is a product of excellent collaboration between the Centre for Ecology &amp; Hydrology, University College London and the UK conservation and environment agencies. This is one of many natural capital portals that we hope to develop in the future as an evidence base to support policy and decision making.&quot;
Enables simple access to simple summary information built on citizen science.
The software is currently being further developed for use in the pilot study phase of the AFRESH project.
CUTEst is the defacto testing tool for nonlinear optimization, and is used by almost all algorithm
developers to evaluate their software.
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
In January 2016, 6 months into the project, 44 participants between the ages of 22 and 69 have subscribed to the site from Kenya, Uganda, South Africa, Nigeria, Botswana, Egypt, and Zimbabwe, as well as African artists in USA, UK and Europe on fellowships/ residencies. Additionally, there have been between 129 and 407 individual unique visitors per month, +15 text abstracts have been uploaded, and 23 events have been logged. This has meant that women form areas with little wifi access, and less smart phones have been able to profile their artistic work and profiles. producers and festival organizers in UK, Canada and SA have actively sought to access artists from particular countries through this project.
The corresponding demo has been discussed within the MPEG consortium.
Speaking for Moors for the Future Partnership, Debra Wilson said; &amp;quot;This real-time educational tool is the first of its kind in the UK in combining weather and geographical data to give an immediate picture of the relative fire risk across the moors. Aimed at visitors to the Peak District, the fire risk maps have been installed in the Edale and Fairholmes visitor centres, which attract over 80,000 visitors a year.&quot; It is making the science accessible to visitors of all ages, and ultimately to helping reduce the number moorland wildfires. It received an enthusiastic response at the launch for school children in July 2015.
The software has been implemented by COSMIC (Catalogue of somatic mutations in cancer) and as an add-in for the widely used ANNOVAR tool.
Three publications with different variants of the algorithm:
Shihab HA, Gough J, Cooper DN, Stenson PD, Barker GLA, Edwards KJ, Day INM, Gaunt, TR. (2013). Predicting the Functional, Molecular and Phenotypic Consequences of Amino Acid Substitutions using Hidden Markov Models. Hum. Mutat., 34:57-65
Shihab HA, Gough J, Cooper DN, Day INM, Gaunt, TR. (2013). Predicting the Functional Consequences of Cancer-Associated Amino Acid Substitutions. Bioinformatics 29:1504-1510.
Shihab HA, Gough J, Mort M, Cooper DN, Day INM, Gaunt, TR. (2014). Ranking Non-Synonymous Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms based on Disease Concepts. Human Genomics, 8:11
This software library has been used widely in our group for tensor network simulations, as well as being downloaded by users in other groups/institutions for use in their own calculations.
Facilitated the collaboration between project partners and created a digital archive of project activities
A paper on this work is currently under review and the code will be published as supplementary information at the same time.
--
--
A novel approach to extension service delivery that eliminates bias in message delivery and is based solely on data collected on farmer practices and scientific logic. Key stakeholders and partners have expressed interest in adopting this tool.
16,000 engineeris use the Tekla Tedds software and now have access to a unified approach to designinging timber frame racking panels inclusive of closed panel detailing.
In my research team openFTL serves as our joint development and simulation platform. Hence, all research in my team is based on openFTL. Beyond my research team, components of openFTL are also used by Prof Kenichi Soga (Cambridge), Prof Denis Zorin (New York University) and Dr Jakub Sistek (Czech Academy of Sciences).
This is a software developed as a part of the InnovateUK grant and the software has been given to industrial partner. The software has not been made available widely at this moment.
This model development has provided key new insights to the subglacial hydrology of ice sheets. Peer-reviewed articles based on outputs from the model include 1) the first quantitative assessment of the hydrologic budget of Antarctic ice streams, and 2) a novel new assessment of the Greenland Ice Sheet's sensitivity to climate change.

Bougamont, M., P. Christoffersen, A. L. Hubbard, A. A. Fitzpatrick, S. H. Doyle, and S. P. Carter, Sensitive response of the Greenland Ice Sheet to surface melt drainage over a soft bed, Nature Communications, 5, 5052-5052, doi:10.1038/ncomms6052, 2014. HIGH IMPACT RESEARCH OUTPUT WITH ALTMETRIC SCORE OF 144 ONE MONTH AFTER PUBLICATION. OUTCOME REPORTED IN 17 NEWS OUTLETS.

Christoffersen, P., *M. Bougamont, S. P. Carter, H. A. Fricker, and S. Tulaczyk, Significant groundwater contribution to Antarctic ice streams hydrologic budget, Geophysical Research Letters, 41(6), 2003-2010, doi:10.1002/2014gl059250, 2014. SELECTED AS RESEARCH HIGHLIGHT BY AGU EDITORS AND FEATURED AS RESEARCH SPOTLIGHT IN EOS NEWSLETTER.
The SIBS is a novel real-time bioaerosol monitor. As a result of Cranfield's research, DMT are improving their device and the approaches to data analysis
-
Considerable interest within the RTI community as this is an entirely plug-in free solution that runs on iOS as well as windows and other platforms.
Gaining wider use, experiments in visualisation of fine grain measurement
The software has significantly reduced the time required for annotating benchmark datasets required to evaluate constituent (vision-based) software functional blocks of a planetary GNC system. This software can be easily adapted to annotate datasets related to other problem domains.
This software architecture is generic, modular and reconfigurable.
Many impacts including many users from government, industry, other academics, several forks, etc.
The software was used to create part of the new Human Evolution exhibit at the Natural History Museum in London.
The software was featured during a recent news story on locomotion simulation.
We believe this to be the first general-purpose theorem proving tool based on the theoretical concept of &quot;cyclic proof&quot;.
Used extensively by the collaborators of the Verifiable Autonomy project to design and develop both low level (continuous) vehicle control and high level (discrete, agent based) decision making. Allows for rapid prototyping of systems in a high fidelity environment.
Also used by a number of other institutions outside of the collaboration, repository has been forked 4 times by other projects.
Proof of concept
The framework has been used to develop a demand-side response concept currently being trialled by the CEGADS project (EPSRC/Innovate UK). 
http://www.dmu.ac.uk/research/research-faculties-and-institutes/institute-of-energy-and-sustainable-development/new-research-projects/cegads.aspx

This concept was also the basis for the Nesta Dynamic Demand Challenfe 2014 prize winning entry.
http://www.nesta.org.uk/blog/dynamic-demand-challenge-prize-winner-announcement
Led to a company formation - ManagePlaces, through which the technology is commercialised. ManagePlaces are incubated by the European Space Agency. ManagePlaces was a UKESNC Winner in 2013.
It is hoped that this will lead to new users and a higher profile of the research. Early impressions from others has been positive and partners in Utrecht have also hosted software on the same platform.

This website hosts multiple software projects, new projects are added at the same time as methods are published in order to facilitate uptake by the research community.
n/a
n/a
First release using new Canvas-based renderer.
Substantial re-write of user interface code.
Event-based interface for writing alternative user interfaces.
Support for &quot;textual&quot; file formats: BED, WIG, and VCF.
Allow the main &quot;tracks&quot; panel to scroll independently of the rest of the user interface.
Allow tracks to be pinned to the top of the display.
Allow more than one local file to be added in a single operation.
An option to export the current Dalliance browser configuration.
Optional use of web-workers (helpers which can concurrently fetch and process data) for better responsiveness when viewing large amounts of data.
Performance improvements, especially when accessing BAM files.
Support for a &quot;bigChain&quot; format (.chain files encoded as bigBeds) which can be used as an alignment source for coordinate mapping.
New build system, based on NPM, Gulp.js, and Browserify.
New track configuration tool.
Buttons for jumping to next feature.
Improved support for password-protected tracks and track-hubs.
Support for VCF files (with Tabix indices).
Support for indexed bigbeds and Trix indices.
Much improved support for read-level display of data from BAM files.
Support for high-DPI (e.g. Retina) displays.
Numberous bug-fixes and performance improvements.
The CIS development has received follow up funding from NERC as part of the JASMIN capital infrastructure investment. We are currently in Phase III of the development, testing the model for big data. 

CIS will be deployed to support the NERC funded CLARIFY| measurement campaign in 2016 and is proposed as data handling tool to support African partners in the DFID/NERC IMPALA proposal for Future Climate for Africa, led by the MetOffice.
The app has yet to be trialed but it is hoped that school groups, field trip groups and interested individuals will gain confidence in identifying aspects of the salt marsh environment and provide information on the vegetation and soil types present on their local marsh.
The development of the cutFEM software has allowed us to test and develop several new methods for multi physics coupling and we expect it to be adopted by the wider research community for the solution of optimisation problems, inverse problems or free surface problems.
Ability for stakeholders to query 3D geological models.
The plugin we distributed is now one of the most downloaded plugins for Gephi, and our code has been used to display interactive networks on thousands of websites. The plugin has been used by many organizations including Harvard, Yale, Stanford, the Wikimedia Foundation, Elsevier, and
State Farm (a US insurance company).
The impact to date has been internal, due to our improvements in the annotation pipeline. However, this work will be very important for the farmed animal community going forward. The next phase of this project will involve building a test suite of modules to ensure that any alterations to the pipeline do not lead to errors in the output. The final phase is to make the pipeline available in the form of an installer or a container for use by the community.
This product enables women in the founding partner organisations to access a mentoring site and join the alta mentoring scheme. To date, 92 women have joined, 53 of whom are mentees and 39 mentors. The software has enabled matching of these mentors/mentees through both parties answering a set of key matching questions in relation to what they are looking for as a mentee/what they can offer as a mentor. The software looks for the closest match for the mentee and will show the most three suitable potential mentors. The mentee can then contact the mentors and being the mentoring process. Just 5 women have not managed to find a match through this process, indicating a high success rate in enabling women to find a suitable mentor who can help with their career development and offer general support.
The public release was within the past 6 months, so impact is only starting to feed through. A startup company, Numerai, have been in contact and are exploring its use in financial forecasting.
The module, together with other parts of the LPPP, are being used during Particle Physics Masterclasses in Lancaster and other UK universities. Over the years more than 10000 A-level students in the UK have been introduced to particle physics using this tool. In addition to outreach activities at universities and research centres teachers are using the LPPP as a resource in their classes at school. Students are inspired to study STEM subjects such as Physics, Engineering and Computing in this way.
The new version of the package will again be included to the European Masterclass resources and reach Europe wide distribution. This distribution reaches several thousands of students each year in addition to schools and teachers Europe wide.
Easy comparison of phylogenetic trees reveals distinct alternative patterns of evolution in many datasets.
None as yet. A manuscript has been submitted to Annals of Applied Statistics that uses the package to implement and illustrate the methods developed on this grant.
On top of this we have built a second package nat.nblast, which implements our NBLAST neuron similarity tool (http://dx.doi.org/10.1101/006353). We have developed a number of web resources based on these approaches including an online neuron search tool (see http://jefferislab.org/si/nblast for details).
normal citizens and patients with long term conditions will use the platform for self-management of their diseases.
The availability and maturity of this software has been a significant factor in many established and new collaborative partnerships.
Demo release of the Acquire job scheduler. The prototype version of the software developed to ease submission and management of jobs to distributed HPC clusters.
The UK is now recognised as a world leading centre for kinetic plasma simulations for laser-plasmas
none as yet. Presently in development and research on-going
None as yet.
Used by at least 700 different authenticated users between April and October 2014.
Used by at least 700 different authenticated users between April and October 2014.
The analysis of images captured through standard and high-speed digital video microscopy enabled the determination of i) distributions of droplet diameters ii) distributions of levels of droplet deformation iii) droplet generation frequencies iv) droplet speeds.
Contributions to submitted and forthcoming publications
CSIC in-house software for FO data analysis
The auto-segmentation approach, allows the program to convert the pixels in a picture/photograph into vector paths that can be used to drive a paintbrush or pen on the printing machine. Although the program performs most of the segmenting, the user can manually adjust many different settings to achieve the desired printed output. 
Texture Smoothing - as the following figure illustrates, reduces the complexity of vector direction in the image, resulting in a decrease in texture noise. 
Min Width - describes the minimum width of the stroke, which emulates the size of the paintbrush that will be used in the painting machine. For example, if a high degree of fine detail is required, the number is set to low and a fine brush is used. If a thicker brush is required, set this high (measurements in mm). 
 Max Width (Layer) - describes the maximum possible width of the stroke, encapsulating the spread of bristles, permitting variation in width across the length of a single stroke. This specifies the width per layer, and will automatically set itself to the maximum width available when brush strokes are generated by the software.
 Max Width (global) - Allows the user to set the maximum desirable width of stroke for all layers. Each layer may not attain the maximum width, which can be inspected via Max Width (layer). 
 Max Length (Layer) - describes the maximum length of the brush stroke per layer. This can also be changed for each layer of the print, but will be automatically updated to represent the longest stroke in the layer after stroke generation. Longer brush strokes suit a certain style of print, for a pointillist style then select a short stroke length (measurements in mm).
 Max Length (global) - Allows the user to set the maximum desirable length of stroke for all layers. Each layer may not attain the maximum length, which can be inspected via Max Length (layer).
Bleed - The program default setting will prevent each layer of colour from overlapping. However, by adjusting the bleed of the layers, the density of the stroke can be modified by increasing the bleed, and thus forcing the layers and colours to overlap. This changes the appearance of the image to create a more gestural effect that might be more appropriate for a watercolour painting, as opposed to a more hard edge graphic effect by maintaining edge definition
Has been downloaded and used by others
This serialisation component provides key functionality to the HdpH software technology, which is the main software output of the project. Serialisation is also of interest in isolation, therefore this module was published separately as well.
Collaboration with North Western University, China, under a Royal Soc. Exchange visit
Collaboration with Helmholtz Zentrum Dresden Rossendorf (HZDR) 
Collaboration with Alabama University
tbc
No actual Impacts realised to date
The software has enabled joint publications with international collaborators (Amsterdam, New Zealand) and provided the basis for a new collaboration (Beijing) as well as supporting 3 projects in the EPSRC imaging Centre for Doctral Training at King's College London
Research into implementations of CPS at End of Life Electronics
Research into the methodology and architecture for CPS
Research into how Industrie 4.0 can be extended to the end of life (not just for manufacturing)
Novel, adaptable, route decision service
The web interface provides correctly scaled visualisation of the data in real-time, offering the ability to monitor energy consumption as the machine is running.
Feedback from collaborators on the software framework. This will help to develop the final release for end users.
A range of successful consultancies generating income of approx. &pound;150000
Twister was used as an essential tool to produce the data for Igor Rivin's paper &quot;Statistics of Random 3-Manifolds occasionally fibering over the circle&quot;. See http://arxiv.org/abs/1401.5736
Enables vehicle fleet owners to reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions
Allows to model high-frequency MHD modes seen by MAST at CCFE, first publication by Sharapov et al. (2015).
Since September 2015 the software has been downloaded 28 times.
Since this software enables one to create a listening test GUI flexibly and quickly, it is expected to have a high impact in academic and research society. Researchers and students who work in subjective audio evaluation can greatly benefit from the software. Since this software became available in June 2015, the download count on the website is increasing rapidly every month. It is expected that the impact will continuously grow.
This resource showcases the diversity of the HPC community, and the variety of careers available to those working with HPC. The aim is to further increase the participation in HPC, irrespective of gender, ethnicity, age, family or any other personal characteristic.
In collaboration with Dr. Marcus Giamattei (Univ of Passau) we are working towards a user-friendly version of the software to make it available to the wider research community.
The software is now widely used and downloaded by the research community. We are currently re-writing (in Python) and enhancing this software and hope to develop forensic applications for it.
Improves accuracy of the assembly and makes the process open source.
Paper published: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6467038
Xen has thrown open the doors to experimental new operating systems such as ours, and it is fitting that we (as Xen developers too) improve the state of cloud management toolstacks. Many of the Mirage 1.0 libraries (such as the device driver implementations) are being used in XenServer as part of the disaggregation of the monolithic driver domain into multiple, less-privileged &quot;stub domains&quot;. While the low-level plumbing for stub domains has existed for some years, they are difficult to build and debug in practise. Mirage's first major application is to transform the XAPI control stack into a standalone distributed system that can run an entire cluster of hosts with a greater degree of reliability, security and scalability than exists today.
Increased efficiency of ingest of metadata into CLOSER metadata repository
This is later used to develop a dictionary of low noise templates.
Details of the collaboration are noted in the PhD Thesis of Martin Ward, University of Edinburgh, 2014.
too early for outputs
This software makes possible use of forward flux sampling by a wider scientific community.
The software has received over 4000 unique downloads via the RStudio editor alone since its release in August of 2014.
This development makes OMERO much more useful for large imaging studies, where data duplication is not an option.
The SWO is currently being used to describe software used in multiple biomedical applications.
The SO3 code is generally applicable whenever Fourier transforms must be computed on SO(3) and will be integral component of new fast wavelet transforms on the sphere.
300+ downloads per month, some community interest/engagement.
The CoCoA [NIPS 2014] / CoCoA+ [ICML 2015] distributed optimization algorithm developed in a duo of papers with two co-authors from Edinburgh (Martin Tak&aacute;c, myself) has won the MLconf Industry Impact Student Research Award. The award goes to our coauthor Virginia Smith (UC Berkeley). Other co-authors: M. Jaggi (ETH Zurich), M.I. Jordan (Berkeley), C. Ma (Lehigh), J. Terhorst (UC Berkeley), S. Krishnan (UC Berkeley), T. Hofmann (ETH Zurich).

About the award: &quot;This year, we started a new award program called the MLconf Industry Impact Student Research Award, which is sponsored by Google. This fall, our committee of distinguished ML professionals reviewed several nominations sent in from members of the MLconf community. There were several great researchers that were nominated and the committee arrived at awarding 2 students whose work, they believe, has the potential to disrupt the industry in the future. The two winners that were announced at MLconf SF 2015 are UC Irvine Student, Furong Huang and UC Berkeley Student, Virginia Smith. Below are summaries of their research. We've invited both researchers to present their work at upcoming MLconf events.&quot;

The citation: &quot; Virginia Smith's research focuses on distributed optimization for large-scale machine learning. The main challenge in many large-scale machine learning tasks is to solve an optimization objective involving data that is distributed across multiple machines. In this setting, optimization methods that work well on single machines must be re-designed to leverage parallel computation while reducing communication costs. This requires developing new distributed optimization methods with both competitive practical performance and strong theoretical convergence guarantees. Virginia's work aims to determine policies for distributed computation that meet these requirements, in particular through the development of a novel primal-dual framework, CoCoA, which is written on Spark. The theoretical and practical development of CoCoA is an important step for future data scientists hoping to deploy efficient large-scale machine learning algorithms.&quot;
Used by over 200 scientists in over 30 leading research labs worldwide
This sw was used to produce the results in this paper:
James Cussens, Mark Bartlett, Elinor M. Jones and Nuala A. Sheehan. Maximum Likelihood Pedigree Reconstruction using Integer Linear Programming. Genetic Epidemiology. 
http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/gepi.21686/full
Further developed by researchers at the University of Lincoln. 2nd prize in the TVX2014 Hackathon
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
The site has been presented at a number of public talks and has contributed back to the Open Street Map project community.

This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
The completed numerical model for the simulation of the forming of sheet metals with multi-punches tools, including the tools with cushions, enables prediction of the forming limits and sprinbacks of sheet-metals, which would help to improve the design and manufacturing efficiency.
MAMO is used to annotate mathematical models in systems biology
This is being used by the project in future developments
Apart from a CPC journal publication, we plan to release the multi-GPU code on the DualSPHysics website once the code has been made releasable.
The introduced block-circulant embedding method (BCEM) can outperform the classical circulant embedding method (CEM), which requires a regularization of the irregular grid before its application.
These methods allow multiband imaging of SI and SII, the acquisition of high resolution ASL data, and the acquisition of VASO data.
None yet.
Not so far (only recently released)
Potential use in sound editing applications
AccessiblePeakMeter received the Best Solution by a Large Organization award in the AT&amp;T and New York University Connect Ability Challenge, a global software competition for software technologies that improve the lives of people living with disabilities. The winner were announced on Sunday July 26 2015, the day of the 25th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
The software has been adopted by the world wide protein data bank (wwPDB) for the validation of all new structures deposited in the wwPDB.
1 journal paper about to be submitted, already 2 other research groups using this software.
Use by other international teams in research
This software is at the heart of several current multi-disciplinary collaborations, including polymorph screening, materials discovery and crystal structure determination.
The BitSeqVB method was a top performing method in a recent benchmark (Kanitz, A., Gypas, F., Gruber, A. J., Gruber, A. R., Martin, G., &amp;amp; Zavolan, M., 2015, Comparative assessment of methods for the computational inference of transcript isoform abundance from RNA-seq data, Genome biology, 16(1), 1-26). The paper describing the work (Hensman et al. Bioinformatics 2015) was the most-read article in the journal Bioinformatics in December and January.
Significantly improves the sensitivity and robustness of differential analysis in iTraq proteomics
This code will be used across multiple fMRI projects in future
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
Demonstrated the feasibility of modelling truly structurally dynamic systems while maintaining computational efficiency through JIT compilation. This has generated interest in the object-oriented modelling community; e.g., commercial languages like Modelica struggle with this.
-
Not known
The concept demonstrator was presented as part of the 2014 BEHAVE conference in Oxford and formed a central part of end user evaluation trials being conducted in collaboration with University of Plymouth collaborators. The demonstrator has undergone a recent (November, 2014, Summer 2015) modification based on early user trials and a second, more game-like inplementation has been developed. The desktop and immersive versions of the eViz apartment were also demonstrated to representatives of SSE plc (formerly Scottish and Southern Energy plc) at a special workshop hosted by the Edne Project in the Summer of 2015.
Required to provides the alignment component of our raw data biomarker discovery pipeline [Liao et al, ISBI 2014]. Impact as a standalone method under assessment.
Used in ApPredict Online web portal.
https://github.com/SpaceGroupUCL
https://www.jiscmail.ac.uk/cgi-bin/webadmin?A0=DEPTHMAP
During the research different tools for a number of platforms (Python, C# plugins and R statistical modelling, Rhino/Grasshopper plugins) were developed in order to generate and visualise the results of this new Space Syntax analysis method. The results were published on the Journal of Space Syntax, describing a 3D VGA analysis research based on 'cube-like' encoded space that can be seen as both a small scale building analysis but also an urban scale setting. This theoretical &quot;cube-like&quot; structure is chosen in order to reassemble attributes of real settings.
This was used in a sixth-form extension course for BSix College in Hackney.
None at present; a publication describing the software is in preparation
None as yet; a manuscript employing this approach is currently in preparation
Increase in efficiency and flexibility available to all users of the Dune software framework.
Important new release of a widely used software library.
It is too early to report notable impacts. The resource met with a significant amount of interest in the media and social media on its launch, and we expect that it will be used in research for many years to come.
Multiple research papers.
Improved visualisation and detection of splice variants and DNA assemblies.
This is in development through 2016.
Users of the app, especially the young coders involved in our project, will be made aware of the activities of other apps on their devices. The data will be shared with the academic community.
Has been used in masters-level teaching at University of Bristol 2013 and 2014, approximately 250 students thus far.
Still under assessment
The paper has led to collaboration with Universities of Edinburgh and Chalmers (Sweden); as well as industries, via SICSA Industrial Proof of Concept grant.
This is still under development, will be released at the end of the project.
The platform is being used within the 'Diabetes Digital Coach' - one of the NHS test beds.
The code is now being used to provide detailed on flow and heat transfer in compression/expansion spaces in the presence of net flow through these spaces and (importantly) behind meshes/orifices which more realistically represent the flow that would be expected in high-performance such systems. These data will be soon provided to other groups (e.g. Denmark Technical University, University of Twente) who require this for advanced model and practical system development (e.g. by Isentropic Ltd.)
Available for the community to use
The eoldas_ng tool has been fundamental in securing both European Space Agency and H2020 funding. We are now starting to demonstrate the potential use of the data we retrieve with this tool with commercial partners.
.
None to date.
Software is key to our recent advances in understanding how kinetochore function, see:

1. Armond J.W., Harry, E.F., and McAinsh, A.D. and Burroughs, N.J. (2015) Inferring the forces controlling metaphase kinetochore oscillations by reverse engineering system dynamics. PLOS Computational Biology 11:e1004607. PMCID: PMC4664287
2. Burroughs, N.J., Harry, E.F. and McAinsh, A.D. (2015) Super-resolution kinetochore tracking reveals the mechanisms of human sister kinetochore directional switching. eLife 2015;10.7554/eLife.09500.
N/A - Published in Nature publication - http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v528/n7580_supp_custom/full/nature16041.html
This package has been used in a previous form for several publications aiming to infer the historical origin of anatomically modern Humans as well as infectious diseases including plague (Y. pestis) and malaria (P. falciparum). It is also used and presented in a study of T. gondii to be submitted in 2016.
The software received 9 citations within the first few weeks of publication and its predecessor software package received over 500 citations.
Since its development the software has been or is currently being used in 15 studies.
The main impact is making the developed methodology available to practitioners for data analyses routinely conducted in many scientific fields and industry, e.g. robust clustering analyses or density estimation.
Awareness raising: 14000 downloads internationally. Accompanying piece for US Blog 'Teach Thought' (1,046,740 unique visitors per month).
This output allows the generation of figures from data containing too many markers to plot in a convenient view. It allows integration of next generation marker strategies such as Dart with asemblies from next generation sequencing projects.
Facilitates applied researchers to generate interpretable visualizations of single cell gene expression data. Resulted in a publication: 
Angerer, Philipp, Laleh Haghverdi, Maren B&uuml;ttner, Fabian J. Theis, Carsten Marr, and Florian Buettner. &quot;destiny: diffusion maps for large-scale single-cell data in R.&quot; Bioinformatics (2015): btv715.
Facilitates researches to computationally assign cell cycle stage to RNA-seq samples. Resulted in a publication: Scialdone A, Natarajan KN, Saraiva LR, Proserpio V, Teichmann SA, Stegle O, Marioni JC and Buettner F, &quot;Computational assignment of cell-cycle stage from single-cell transcriptome data&quot;, Methods, 2015, doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2015.06.021
Presented to industrial collaborators proving capabilities and potential of FSR.
Used by a number of UK and international colleagues, including NERC NCAS colleagues.
The new formulation will allow to test the importance of mixothrophy in the planktonic ecosystem and assess its impact on trophic fluxes and carbon export.
Publications. Further grants. Preliminary industrial adoption.
used in industry
n/a
used in detection of SNPs linked to blight resistance in wild potato
none yet
Downloaded by 44 users (as of Feb 2015)
TBC
None yet, software in testing
The main impact of this development is to increase the flexibility and efficiency of physiology experiments. The main innovation is allowing the experimenter to change the combination of instruments and parameters in a couple of seconds, something which is crucial during in vivo experiments where time is very limited. This is expected to greatly increase the success of each experiment, leading to increased output and efficiency. In addition, the system has been designed to facilitate the incorporation of future modules, which should reduce the time to implement and incorporate new technologies.
The software are available to the public upon request and several requests from american and india have been received and software dispatched.
We used this to provide a first realistic description of HAADF-STEM imaging of nano particles
This will be useful and openly available for anyone wants to matching the mobility data to maps.
Several recent methodological advancements in QMC technology now available to users, including new generalised Jastrow functions, T moves, better wavefunction optimisation methods, and improved OpenMP support.
This software is used to detect channel heads and has been downloaded 17 times as of Nov. 2014 (posted in May)
A worldwide community of practice developing around the software, including one user in the US who won a national composition prize using it.
Using the software we make the data more easily captured and more readily put into database for analysis
Initial requirements gathered. Initial training for development environment begun.
Better team collaboration
Precise and accurate position determination with a large volume detector offers huge improvements in the subsequent processing of the signal data
Range of geometries on which the library's Nedelec implementation if valid has been vastly improved. Previously only rectangular-faced geometries were possible.
A journal article has been submitted to Computers and Structures and is under review.
Download stats and online feedback testify to widespread use, enjoyment, and enhancement of understanding on part of users. Use of app with school pupils as part of teaching resources accompanying exhibition identified as particularly effective.
Development of the most acsurate photoreceptor model
Cited 10 times in first year.
The beta version of the software is being used by a group of schools in London.
This software package is one of a handful of 'recommended' packages supplied with the base distribution of R. Previous versions have been widely used in a wide range of applications, particularly in ecology and natural resource management, as well as medicine, epidemiology and economics. For example the energy company EDF use the methods for electricity load forecasting. In addition the package is currently used by 102 other software packages for R. For example the underlying fitting methods are sufficiently general that they can be efficiently leveraged for functional data analysis, as in the 'refund' package.
The new developments to the JPred4 web resource have increased the number of predictions carried out per month from around 10,000 on average to up to 250,000. The server is used by scientists in over 170 countries. A paper was published in 2015 on the new developments and this has so far been cited 40 times (Since July 2015 - I am writing this in March 2016.).
Not at this time
Used in protein prediction software
Used in pilot National Compound Database study funded by RSC
Used for prediction of binders to therapeutically interesting proteins for hit discovery
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
Happerley Farmed Knowledge exchange partnership
This web tool has been developed and has been piloted in individuals with pre-diabetes
The final version of the app allowed for continuity to be examined between users of Greendoors 2013 and Greendoors 2014, e.g. did familiarity with the app encourage a larger number of downloads or more indepth use?
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
Work with AI Factory and used in
The tool is still at a prototype and will be distributed among commercial partners once it is fully developed.
Widely distributed package including academia and industrial users.
This mobile device app for iOS devices has been used as an exemplar of co-production of digital community heritage assets in Leicester. It can be downloaded for free form the Apple iTunes Store. It has led to greater public interest in the history and monumental sculpture of Welford Road Cemetery in Leicester and assisted the Friends of Welford Road cemetery in furthering the aims and goals of their charitable trust in the care for this Grade I listed site.
Many groups have used this software
More than 70 million words have gone through Textal since it was made available to the general public, with people using it to analyse everything from speeches and research, to news stories. It has been used in six different languages, and in 28 different countries.
Interfaces are provided to a variety of external atomistic codes, such as VASP, CASTEP, CP2K and LAMMPS
Literatin presents information about text complexity in a way users can relate to.
The software was developed for inclusion in abYsis2 - a new version of which will be released shortly. It has been released as open source and was picked up for use in another web site within a month of being released.
Novel software for predicting HIV-1 drug resistance/tropism in the context of entry-inhibitor drugs.
The web portal went live late last year but the back-end simulation software continues to be developed as part of a linked project led by UCL. It is expected that impact will be realised when the calculations performed on the back-end become more advanced and so further value is created in uploading structures to the database. It should be noted that structures uploaded today can and will have additional properties calculated and uploaded as the back-end simulation code develops further.
Tools for experimental optimisation by analysis of preliminary structure results are included in the CRYSTALS software package. We are currently writing up the theory and applied examples with recommendations to allow other groups to follow the methods.
No impact yet.
Parents can receive information on babies' psychological development via their smartphone. Engagement in the app aims to facilitate the quality of parent-child interaction.
Web interface displays information, real-time to end user. This information was previously very limited as well as having a high lag. It has also allowed compliance to new industry standards
Web service for the collection of RFID data from portals.
EventMine has been trained on a number of different corpora, and corresponding web services are available. EventMine outperformed on a number of community shared tasks BioNLP 2011 and 2013. It is adaptable to any domain.
The webtool is used regularly by members of the collaboration. It is a significant improvement over a previous, email based, system. The new system as save countless hours of researcher time in circulating and reviewing these publications and presentations.
The software was originally developed for the visualisation of data in this publication:

Haberle, V., Li, N., Hadzhiev, Y., Plessy, C., Previti, C., Nepal, C., et al. (2014). Two independent transcription initiation codes overlap on vertebrate core promoters. Nature, 507(7492), 381-385. http://doi.org/10.1038/nature12974

Since then it has been used for several publications that are currently accepted for publication or under review.
This is R/Bioconductor extended port of our popular Perl software toolkit, which brings TFBS manipulation and detection software to genome-wide level.
This is a newly released tool. We have developed it to analyse CHIA-PET and Hi-C data for the needs of our own research (two papers submitted).
The NetAgg platform was exploited as part of the HARNESS European FP7 project in order to demonstrate the performance benefit that it can bring in heterogeneous cloud environments.
The software has been used by other researchers working in this field to assist with their own outputs.
Both the website and twitter account are dissemination tools aimed at bringing the research to the wider public.
The software now allows the use of multiple stellar evolution codes (e.g. TWIN, my binary_c code, the Cambridge STARS code and the popular MESA stellar evolution code).

It will be used for the first time in our public outreach open day in March 2016. 

This software will be used by my postdoc Ghina Halabi as part of the STFC funded &quot;2D stellar evolution&quot; project. 
This software is being used by one of the institute's PhD students.
Positive user feedback
The software has been used in the EM community for the purpose of EM flexible density fitting as well as in general analysis of protein structure (cited 19 times since 2012). 

Pandurangan &amp; Topf 2012 (PMID: 22079400)
Pandurangan &amp; Topf 2012 (PMID: 22796953)
Pandurangan et al. 2014 (PMID: 224333899)
application can be used to perform studies with mobile phones. it was used in a number of studies.
4000 hits in the first year online
Crucial to the development of the legislation data research infrastructure.
This software has a potential to significantly reduce the down time of production systems by alerting the technicians and providing them all relevant information regarding the fault and the equipment.
This tool is being used for virtual modelling and validation of assembly systems at a number of industries (such as Ford and JLR)
No impact to date (just released)
A key step in the processing chain of multi-sensor full archive Land Surface Temperature data products
Currently, I have applied these more recent developments to my own analyses and applications in-house. Additionally, others have been testing the analysis pipeline in conjunction with the annotation pipeline prior to a more formal software update and release.
Is being widely used for functional Near Infra Red Spectroscopic Imaging
Also used in small animal imaging including fluoresence lifetime imaging.
Increased engagement with cultural organisations, especially libraries
STAR project Demonstrator
http://hypermedia.research.southwales.ac.uk/kos/star/ 
http://intarch.ac.uk/journal/issue30/tudhope_index.html
This is an ongoing project which promises to make opportunistic use of shared cloud services much easier.
A number of projects in our group (publications pending) have used this tool to study the band structure of functionalised and substrate-supported graphene. The software is available to all UK academic license holders of CASTEP via CCPForge.
Enabled all our CamCAN analysis and publications, and other sites in future
Still awaiting feedback from users
Widely accessed. Most downloaded J Virol Methods paper for early 2014
Too early to say - only completed recently.
Software in use by 100+ researchers; elements of it subject of a knowledge exchange activity with SEPA as part of their SEWeb portal.
60 hits a day
It's too early to report notable impact.
none
The TGAC CyVerse hardware enables the bioinformatics pipelines developed by the project partners (Univ's. Liverpool, Nottingham, Warwick) to be run on this HPC environment. Once deployed in the UK CyVerse environment, these tools can then be made available globally through the CyVerse Discovery Environment, reaching upwards of 18000 potential users.

We are also currently trialling projects at TGAC based upon wheat genome and exome sequencing analysis.
none
none
This software/preconditioner is already in use by several groups who are developing and deploying open-source modelling software.
The developments described above indicate that the presence of the tidal energy device forming the basis of the investigation has minimal impact on local benthic communities.
This version of the code was downloaded and used by industry (Okada Okimasa, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Co., Japan), and was also the subject of presentation at the DrugDesign2013 conference in Oxford.
- has been used by 20 members of the public at an event at the Writers Studio Nottingham 
- will be used by members of the public during the planned long-term public deployment of the large scale interactive illustrations that have been created in the project 
- enables us to explore the research question of how we can enable interaction with large physical surfaces through embedding multiple visual codes
-
Integrated within the ourSpaces VRE
The FISS nuclear criticality safety assessment modelling and simulation software will be used by AWE to investigate and model nuclear criticality excursions and safety of drums of fissile liquid. It will have a impact upon safer procedures for storage and handling of fissile liquids.
The notable impact of this research was the development of software for Babcock and Wilcox Technical Services Group that enabled them to investigate the operational behaviour of their liquid uranyl nitrate fuelled small modular medical isotope reactor called MIPS. This work was presented to the US NRC as the underpinning science justifying the stated operational behaviour of the reactor.
20 internal staff have completed this course
I receive regular correspondence from academics working in a variety of disciplines who use the software asking for guidance on how to use it.
Models can be encoded in SBML using a graphical user interface, without the need to know XML.
Systems Biology software and databases can use a single conversion system to import and export a variety of formats.
Cited in published work on the TRAAC model.
Code has been passed to Hydrographic Office for use
FCP2PN tool was an implementation of the polynomial translation of Finite Control Processes (an important subset of pi-calculus) to safe Petri nets, that demonstrated its practicality. The possibility of a polynomial translation is of major theoretical importance. We are not aware of any &quot;practical&quot; impact.
The tool itself has undergone validation for identifying place of residence of TB patients presenting at TB registration centres and the data are currently being analysed. The tool has been adapted for two other research projects at MLW: surveillance for an ongoing typhoid outbreak and a study on impact of PCV vaccines. Several other studies in Blantyre are soon to begin using ePAL. It is hoped once the tool is validated that it could be replicated in other similar settings.
This software package is a new release of one of a handful of 'recommended' packages supplied with the base distribution of R. Previous versions have been widely used in a wide range of applications, particularly in ecology and natural resource management, as well as medicine, epidemiology and economics. For example the energy company EDF use the methods for electricity load forecasting. In addition the package is currently used by 102 other software packages for R. For example the underlying fitting methods are sufficiently general that they can be efficiently leveraged for functional data analysis, as in the 'refund' package.
This software was used to train RNNLMs that were used in the Cambridge University transcription systems used in the 2015 ASRU multi-genre broadcast challenge (international challenge involving the automatic transcription of BBC broadcast audio). The Cambridge system gave the lowest error rates in the challenge and the use of RNNLMs efficiently trained on a large corpus of subtitle material was a key component, as well as the use of topic adaptation.
The HAG-GIS software is a core tool for the geocoding process of Digitising Scotland project which has the potential to be of high impact in a variety of different fields, whether it is simply the digitisation of the records or the further coding and linking of the data. It will allow researchers
to study events for some 18 million individuals over 150 years of events allowing the quantification of change in the important characteristics of Scottish Society over time and space.
Development of knowledge exchange relationships through the site
The new platform enabled the first an on-line debate examining the role of international monitors, such as the UN Group of Experts or human rights groups, in reporting on mass conflict. The discussion centred on donor responses to recent military activities in the Eastern Democratic Republic of Congo. Jason K. Stearns, director of the Rift Valley Institute's Usalama Project debated with Phil Clark, Lecturer in Comparative and International Politics at SOAS, University of London. The discussion ran from March until July 2013 and included moderation and guest commentaries from leading academics and policy think tanks. During this period the website was viewed by 3186 individual users, with the majority of web traffic coming from the United Kingdom, Rwanda, the United States of America, Switzerland, Belgium, Kenya, Denmark, France, the Netherlands, United Arab Emirates and Australia.
PhD thesis produced. Paper presented at international conference (Solid State Ionics 20, 2015). Papers using the routines have been published.
n/a
Use of the Learning Designer tool was established during the project, and has since increased.
Since the end of the project (31 May 2014) the Learning Designer tool has increased its page views from 29,000 to 89,000 (31 May 2015), with steady growth in visitors over each previous quarter of 19%, 46%, 32%, 73% to 60,000 unique visitors over the year.
By the end of the BCK project the Learning Design Directory had collected 117 publicly available designs, including 48 reviews for teachers to share. In the 12 months since the end of the project this has now risen to 258 designs.
The Learning Designer was used as the basis of an activity within a Coursera-based MOOC on ICT in Primary Education (May-July 2014), which brought over 1000 users to the tool. It is being used again in the current re-run (May - July 2015).
In 2014 there were 92 comments in the associated forum, all highly appreciative, in a context where few forums would receive more than 100 contributions.
SurreyFBA2 stems from legacy of research on simulation of genome scale molecular interaction networks at the University of Surrey. Previous versions of the software have been used to reconstruct genome scale metabolic networks of bacterial pathogens Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Neisseria meningitidis. In biotechnology context, we applied SurreyFBA to simulations of Streptomyces coelicolor - major industrial microorganism for antibiotic production. Currently, we use SurreyFBA to study metabolic reprogramming in non-alcoholic liver disease and cancer. The work on cancer cell metabolism attracted industry contribution through BBSRC CASE PhD fellowships. External users applied SurreyFBA as a computational engine in their metabolomics website and as a research tool. We have also attracted interest of industrial and academic partners of C1Net Network of Industrial Biotechnology and Energy. The SurreyFBA2 is used to develop model of Methanotroph.
Application knowledge regarding one of our industrial partner's work processes has been input and created via KEWI.
Publication : Graham R. Wood, Eugene V. Ryabov, Jessica M. Fannon, Jonathan D. Moore, David J. Evans and Nigel Burroughs (2014) MosaicSolver: a tool for determining recombinants of viral genomes from pileup data. Nucleic Acids Research doi: 10.1093/nar/gku524
The development of this software has allowed the Liverpool Bay composition to be developed and applied. The Liverpool Bay comsposition is a set of linked models that exchange data during run-time. It consists of two instances of UnaLinea (a model of beach plan-shape evolution) one instance of ASMITA and the results from the coastal area model POLCOMS.
Novel Structures
Several users globally have now reported on research results, including us, using the software
Using the newly developed software and following the new methodology the whole new class of visco-elastic materials and their behaviour can now be described and understood. It is possible now to analysed and predict the visco-elastic behaviour of a larger class of materials taking into account their microstructure.
-
ConSAT has been used to produce the homonym database (see 'databases'), which is being used in two external collaborations (with Pablo Sotello and Matteo Pellegrini, see 'collaborations'). 
ConSAT has been used for our participation in the second CAFA challenge, organized by an international research community of more than 50 research groups devoted to the study of protein function prediction methods.
Beyond use on the Reflect Project as a tool to help understand and measure the effectiveness of experience sampling (ESM) in comparison to alternative forming of sampling such as event reconstruction (ERM) a number of academic practitioners have shown further interest in using the XPR platform to support their research (Recall Project).
The Affective Doodle Toolkit has been trialled in several different domains including a University foyer, a corporate office, a public museum, and transport conference (UTSG 2013). Over this period the Toolkit has received over 100 doodles in each location.
The website has enabled industry and academics to engage with the outputs of the project.
It has started to enable modelling of UK bioenergy chains with integrated food production.
The API is used in tools like PRIDE Inspector Toolsuite, and in the PRIDE internal submission pipeline. Other colleagues in the field are also using this library as a common data model.
This is a beta version, not yet a final release.
This open source code has only just been released - thus impact is not known at this stage.
A server which will be used by the wwPDB annotation system to update CSD coordinates for existing entries as well as adding coordinates for new molecules.
A conference paper listed separately and ongoing work as part of the EPSRC programme grant FAST-IMPACT.
minoTour has been used by more than 30 institutes and over 100 unique users worldwide. We have attracted $10,000 dollars in funding from Amazon to continue its development.
TMA Navigator is used widely and runs hundreds of analyses per month. TMA Navigator has been used as part of clinical research programmes at the Universities of Edinburgh and St. Andrews. It also supports research at other institutions nationally (e.g. NIMR) and internationally (e.g. Vanderbilt, USA).
Implementation with data from the Accessible Resource for Integrated Epidemiology Studies
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
Jalview has wide reaching impact - it is started at least 250,000 times per year by scientists in over 160 countries and the two publications describing Jalview have been cited in excess of 3,800 times (Google Scholar Citations). Jalview is used by scientists in virtually all fields of modern biology and biomedicine where biological sequences are analysed and compared.
Greater efficiency in analysis of atomic spectra to determine atomic data.
Published in Computer Physics Communications in 2013.
This has been essential to allow us to quantify pig movements from on-farm video recordings where many uncontrollable variables influence the field of view / perspective / camera angle etc. It allows us to control for all these issues and hence produce comparable measures of movement even under very different conditions.
Published paper describing the software: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26525406
--
Since the launch of the new portal in February 2016, the portal has had around 50,000 hits by 17,847 unique IP addresses indicating that the website has a quite broad reach within the UK bio-simulation community.
Potential to facilitate a culture of greater openness in terms of the dissemination of research outputs within the region.
Intended as a discovery tool to improve research efficiency and effectiveness, this has been used for some original research (M. Holness, pers comm)
Used at many research centres, including NASA Langley.
First model checker of its kind, with potential applications to verification and software testing.
Embedded in Europe PubMedCentral search tools
This new model has enabled us to investigate the effects of the growth of 3D asymmetries on the performance of inertial confinement fusion capsules on the National Ignition Facility, including the effects of asymmetry in the driving radiation source and defects in capsule manufacture.
The HAT Database Schema forms part of the technology behind the Hub-of-all-Things (HAT) that allows individuals to flatten, contextualise, bundle and exchange all types of personal data. All this tech exist within a trust framework of a personal data exchange ecosystem, hence allowing permitted exchange of personal data with other individuals or HAT-enabled organisations. These have been released to the wider public and made freely available, to reflect the nature of the project's public funding.
The HAT Deployment Mechanism forms part of the technology behind the Hub-of-all-Things (HAT) that allows individuals to flatten, contextualise, bundle and exchange all types of personal data. All this tech exist within a trust framework of a personal data exchange ecosystem, hence allowing permitted exchange of personal data with other individuals or HAT-enabled organisations. These have been released to the wider public and made freely available, to reflect the nature of the project's public funding.
The HAT Data Plugs form part of the technology behind the Hub-of-all-Things (HAT) that allows individuals to flatten, contextualise, bundle and exchange all types of personal data. All this tech exist within a trust framework of a personal data exchange ecosystem, hence allowing permitted exchange of personal data with other individuals or HAT-enabled organisations. These have been released to the wider public and made freely available, to reflect the nature of the project's public funding.
This library facilitates hydrological data discovery and retrieval from data sources that do not provide programmatic access.
This library providing guidelines to carry out modelling tasks in a more objective and less modeller dependent way, hence enhancing reproducible research.
Reduction in resource required to encrypt projects. Increase in encryption timings
LIQUID Dataplex is a fundamental tool for the LIQUID project. In particular, we have run experiments (which we will continue to run after the end of the grant duration, as a continuation of the research) on processing keyword searches on the Deep Web, and on the use of integrity constraints for reducing the query processing time.
Used by over 200 scientists in over 30 research labs worldwide.

Also finding increasing use outside of neuroscience, including in systems biology
Provides a new way to make accessible interfaces
Public release on Apple iTunes
This software is key to the operation of the iPerfusion system. This system led to several collaborative projects.
libkalibera has been added to and used by other authors e.g.:
 Dynamically Composing Languages in a Modular Way: Supporting C Extensions for Dynamic Languages. Matthias Grimmer, Chris Seaton, Thomas Wuerthinger, Hanspeter Moessenboeck. Modularity 2015 (to appear)
According to reports several crystal structures have been analysed using this software although it is too early to judge its impact. r
The tool is being piloted with a group of BioMed Central journals to see if it improves the quality of article submissions; the tool is also being integrated into Penelope Research's automated manuscript review software (http://www.peneloperesearch.com/) and will be pilotting with one or more journals in Spring 2016.
In March 2014 we ran a series of workshops at the Future Everything festival in Manchester to better understand what it might be like to allow objects to 'piggy back' the urban routines that we perform on a daily basis so that they may move across the city.
Information previously un-captured is now being collected to aid process optimisation as well as conformance to newly introduced industry standards.
Modelling software respresenting product flow in an automotive manufacturing environment
Novel system which autonomously collects information unique to the manufacture of the product. The granularity of information collected is much higher than currently available in this domain
The first auto-tuning tool for HSA programs.
This software is widely used within the LIGO Scientific Collaboration, comprising 1,000 scientists. It is easy to use and well liked.
This is an education tool. It runs alongside an academic paper on the subject
DOI 10.7554/eLife.03908
North Sea Interactive has been well received by the Scottish Government (who host the tool on their website) and by the Oil and Gas industry
The software has been taken up by 3 leading academic groups in the USA and a group in Germany is also looking to adopt the software.
Publication in the journal &amp;amp;quot;Epidemics&amp;amp;quot;; used internally by staff at PHE
The application is being advertised at the moment.
The software is still under development, but we have received a request for additional knot theoretic features as an aid as a research exploration tool.
Discussion mailing list available at mgkit-users.
Identified candidate SNPs for resistance to blight in wild potato
tbc
A version of this model was used for a continental scale study of flood risk for a major international re-insurance company.
This is enabling accurate protein abundance to be achieved within the context of fully segmented organs in 3D. In this regard the spatiotemporal abundance of proteins in individual cells can be accurately quantified.
TBC
822 Facebook &quot;likes&quot; for the website at time of writing (28/2/2016)
The SmartPM software is the first truly flexible tool which allows oil refinery operators to (a) establish the level of fouling in their heat exchanger networks, (b) establish the most economically attractive cleaning scheduling programme to mitigate fouling, and (c) to compare cleaning programmes with other mitigation options such as network retrofitting or cleaning chemicals. Proof of impact is its adoption by several oil majors. The technology reduces financial costs as well as greenhouse gas emissions.
The paper relating to this software is currently under review; the software will not be released to the wider community until the paper is published. Feedback from beta testers has been positive. We anticipate making the software open source to maximise impact.
Prototype demonstrator. Not used outside project consortium yet.
The model integrates groundwater and gaseous transport of C-14 species in a manner that allows these processes to be integrated into an environmental safety case.
The tool has been made available for research, and has been licensed to over 40 groups so far.
This has led to about 10 different collaborations with research groups across the world.

When applied to the problem of locating landmarks used by orthodontists on cephelograms (radiographs of the skull), it won an international competition for accuracy. This has led to discussions with various companies about licensing the technology for inclusion in dental software suites.
There are two versions of this software and one (predominantly developed by them) is in use at the University of Oxford.
The program is used in the academic community of researchers in physics, applied mathematics and life sciences, investigating effects of delay.
The software was disseminated to industry via SICSA Industrial Proof of Concept grant (2013-2014).
As this product has only be released recently, there is no impact yet. However, using this software we have been able to detect what we think is the first example of collusion in the wild.
The webserver makes this material more readily searchable and accessible and has already lead to several research applications.
Widescale uptake of the app - available for both android and iPhone. An Australian version has been created.
The STIR software package has a relatively large user base; the additions are mainly of interest to the small but expanding community who have PET/MR and who wish to experiment with alternative reconstruction algorithms.
The ability to simulate high-intensity particle physics experiments and analyse the data they output.
Public engagement plus outreach activities
The tool was the first to implement an automata based approach to the verification of higher-order recursion schemes. It also was the first to use a &amp;quot;saturation&amp;quot; method. The tool showed that this approach is competitive with existing approaches and inspired a further tool (HORSAT) to be produced by Naoki Kobayashi's group in Tokyo, using similar techniques.
This will be available to GPs to use to enhance their communication skills and antibiotic prescribing
The main impact is ensuring that the developed methodology is accessible to researchers in biomedicine and bioinformatics.
These will be published in due course.
- Studies using the eViz VR flat have so far led to a paper published in the conference proceedings of BEHAVE 2014, and a journal paper is under review. 
- A presentation on the eViz VR flat at the Biennial Conference of Environmental Psychology 2013, led to an invite to speak at the University of Nottingham
- The eViz VR flat was used as an engagement tool at the Regen SW renewable energy market place by the eViz team. This encouraged members of the public to visit the eViz stand.
Highly used
This tool, still under active development, makes it possible to generate constraint models automatically from their specifications, rather than relying on human experts.
The impacts are yet to be realised. Ultimately, this software tool will gather data and potentially improve on-farm biodiversity management on thousands of farms in European supply chains. There are plans to pilot the tool this year (2016).
The Artcodes app has been used in a number of workshops with external users (architects, local councils and museums) to teach them to create artcodes and associated experiences themselves. 

The app has already been used independently by artists to create public experiences. Most notably by Simeon Featherstone to create the Hidden Language Hidden Trails artwork in Dorchester and by Alice Angus in artwork inspired by the Lymington Saltmarshes.
none
none
Software integrated within the ourSpaces VRE.
The RADIANT software is currently being evaluated by both Rolls-Royce civil nuclear and Rolls-Royce submarines for commercial exploitation in collaboration with Imperia College London. This will result in improvements in radiation shield design resulting from more accurate and computationally more efficient solutions of radiation shielding problems. It is also likely to form part of automated radiation shield design software thus making radiation shield design easier and more efficient.
No specific impacts to report at this time.
This software has enabled several of the studies listed in the list of publications.
An ARCHER resource allocation panel (RAP) application was submitted and approved 21 October 2014 for 26,327.51 kAU, running this code to investigate atomic bonding and structure of materials
Being used by community
Not yet known.
To be determined.
It is the subject of an article to be published in PLoS One (accepted April 2015)
Over 10 of the top 20 largest global pharmaceutical companies have now registered for accounts on the Web Portal.
Not yet since it is under trial.
na
Downloaded by over 5000 users. Allows the delivery of geological data and linkage to more traditional geology data summaries and products to mobile users and more diverse user communities.
Since the tool was released in beta 6 months ago, it has received over 1,500 unique page views. We anticipate that the number of visitors will further increase, once the publication is released and awareness of the tool grows.
jmzTab is a library used in other tools such as PRIDE Inspector. It can also be used to parse and output mzTab files. mzTab is a open standard data format developed by the Proteomics Standards Initiative.
The software covers two separate models for spatial analysis; the Space Syntax model and the Agent model. These two models are theoretically different in spite of the fact that they agree on the principal relationship between space and society. They start from different representations, and they diverge at the point of modelling. The agent model represents an emergent process that leads to form aggregate patterns of movement activity. Through its ability to display movement data in relation to aggregate patterns of agents, depthmapX's agents have proven to be an effective tool to simulate natural movement. Space Syntax builds on a synchronic reduction of spatial relationships in the built environment. Mapping this reduction into networks of longest and fewest lines, depthmapX's axial and segment analyses are powerful methods for predicting to-movement and through-movement in cities. On the scale of buildings, spatial analysis using depthmapX can reveal relational structures that convey how social organisations occupy spaces. depthmapX is a platform that brings together these too models to be tested in an analytical approach. It also affords experimental and developer approaches.

The current usage of this software has proven to engage different types of academic communities that have a language in common with the notion of space. These communities range between planners, designers, social scientists, anthropologists, crime scientists, geographers, computer scientists and economists. In general terms, all what brings together the social and the spatial. In different contexts, spatial modelling using depthmapX can help forming assumptions about social behaviour in space and model spatial and social relationships. Moreover, depthmapX significance exceeds its common usage as an analytical tool to understand the built environment on different scales and go beyond that to act as a design and decision making support tool. The intelligent usage of software will deploy it in supporting design process with a knowledge-base that is suggested to make designs more responsive towards the real settings of the built environment. In simple terms, depthmapX is increasingly used as a tool for design thinking. By using it efficiently, the software helps on sparing time and cost, particularly on the scale of complex buildings and large scale urban planning.
Improved accuracy of products producing using flexible spinning machine
Code used both in industry (e.g., Unilever) as well as in academia.
The research is not finished yet. It is still a prototype and it has not been released publicly. It is currently being used for th project's experiments. Once fully tested and completed it will be released in the public domain as open-source software.
This code has been downloaded and used by many research groups around the world. For example, of the 34 publications listed on the oxDNA web-site that use the model, six are by non-Oxford groups, including one recently in Science (Science 349, 977-981 (2015)).
Subsequently used in several publications relating to research following on from this grant.
Other researchers are trying out CLiC - as shown by our Google analytics data.
Being used by future projects, notably a collaboration with Moorfields Eye Hospital
A collaboration has been developed with Professor Gary Butler (UCL and UC Hospital) and Professor David Howard to undertake a validation study based on recordings of the Speech test app and salivary testosterone samples. The study is currently funded by the University of York. Subject to a successful outcome the app will be further developed as a commercial project in conjunction with the UK National Standards for Adolescent Growth.
Please see the impact narrative part for this description.
We are still collecting data from this website.
The software is currently commercialised by a spin-out company, with customers outside academia.
None as yet
Commercial products from AT&amp;T.
Spinout company Rhetorical Systems.
None yet - software and method are in-development
A principle impact from the use of this app has been that it has significantly contributed to saving the remains of a unique 19th century &quot;House of Correction&quot; in Southwell and its sensitive incorporation into a new urban development plan. Part of the remains of this historic building are to become a heritage centre. The results from the development process and testing of this app have shown that public interest in using apps for archaeology is increasingly rapidly in the UK and both professional and community archaeologists find it useful to present their work to public audiences, often on site, to show how exciting finds can inform the understanding of the communities and landscapes where we live. It has been shown that presenting individual artefacts using the app can help bring the past back to life and engage members of the public in with the heritage of their built environment to an extent not previously common. The development and testing of the app has also highlighted areas which although functional would bear further development to make the easier to use by those with little or no prior experience, in particular uploading artefact data to the app's Content Management System (CMS).
The results from development process and testing of this app have shown that public interest in using apps for archaeology is increasingly rapidly in the UK and both professional and community archaeologists find it useful to present their work to public audiences, often on site, to show how exciting finds can inform the understanding of the communities and landscapes where we live. Presenting individual artefacts using the app can help bring the past back to life and the complex topography and architecture of the archaeological site of Binchester Roman Fort, can be better explained by the interactive visualisation of the app, increasing the speed of cognitive understanding of fragmentary and now hidden parts of buildings and the site's overall schema. While this apsect of the app and out put from this project was highly successful, there was only moderate success in affording the opportunity for community archaeologists in uploading artefact data to the app's Content Management System (CMS) because it was found that while this aspect of the app functioned well technically, there was a perception that the process was too slow and technically demanding for those with little or no prior experience. We accept this view and are seeking to develop an improved and more user friendly paradigm for this aspect of the concept.
Papers describing this code, together with applications of it, are currently being written up. The code itself allows for simulations of systems relevant to experiment to be carried out.
This software will enable a process that will shorten total fabrication time by parallel processing. In addition, the optimised toolpath offer a surface with improvement on mid-spatial errors.
Our feedback tells us that people went to the theatre more often, read/re-read plays more often, and took more walks than they would otherwise have done were it not for our app.
Still under development.
The package has been used in teaching courses on methods for handling missing data.
Sire is used in several pharmaceutical companies for projects in drug design and development.
Sire is used in several pharmaceutical companies for drug design and development projects. This version of the code was used for the EMBO Biomolecular Simulation workshop in Paris in July 2014. http://events.embo.org/14-simulation/
The application is open-source. Crowdsourcing is an increasingly popular, collaborative approach for acquiring annotated corpora. Despite this, reuse of corpus conversion tools and user interfaces between projects is still problematic, since these are not generally made available. The GATE Crowdsourcing plugin offers infrastructural support for mapping documents to crowdsourcing units and back, as well as automatically generating reusable crowdsourcing interfaces for NLP classification and sequence annotation tasks.
The tagger is available open-source. Part-of-speech tagging tweets is hard. The tagger achieves competitive accuracy, and uses the Penn Treebank tagset, so that all other tools should integrate seamlessly.
n/a
The software was initially used to generate the first bacterial genome assembly, of E. coli K-12, using just nanopore data and was published in Nature Methods. Later on the software was adapted to provide highly accurate variant calls in support of the real-time Ebola genomic surveillance project (Quick, Loman, et al Nature 2016).
TSB industry partner grant with Unilever. Feasibility study for new gentox testing assays.
The app has just launched, but following promotional and public engagement activities we anticipate considerable interest across a range of secondary, sixth form and undergraduate teaching establishments.
Initial interest; too soon to judge impact
Still working up to 1.0 release (a pre-release candidate is available at https://github.com/hande-qmc/hande) so no impacts yet, but stochastic quantum chemistry is a growing field and we hope the code will be widely used.
Has supported development and publication of an annotated multi-track test audio dataset, and is likely to be used in future work of this kind.
The software enables users to rapidly produce bespoke EoS, tailored to their particular application. It will also enable these models to continually evolve as new measurements become available, ensuring that experimental advances are rapidly converted into improved CCS modelling and, ultimately, better performance and efficiency of real CCS processes. During the project a demonstration workshop was held to train potential industrial and academic users on the use of the software.

Ultimately, the tool will make it straightforward for users to continually and rapidly update their EoS in response to emerging experimental data. The resulting EoS will deliver greater range, certainty and computational efficiency in a wide range of CCS modelling. These EoS will contribute to more effective optimisation of CCS, making the process cleaner, safer, more efficient and more economical. This modelling will also be essential to design codes and safety regulations and will provide key modelling support to the urgently required public engagement and consultation on pipeline transport of CO2.
Previously users could download only a single data file at a time, which was a problem if the user was interested in long time periods. We anticipate that this should make NEODAAS data useful to a much wider range of users, though it may take time for this to be realised since it will take a while for potential users to become aware of the opportunity
sharing and scientific advance, publications
Academic papers and data products from Herschel data.
.
The new version of BayesTraits can effectively analyse large trees with hundreds or thousands of taxa, for both continuous, discrete and multi state data. Improvements have led to over 3 orders of magnitude speed increase when analysing a near complete bird phylogeny of 6000 taxa, reducing the run time from years to hours. This allows the analysis of current and next generation of phylogenetic trees, as well as the development of more complex and realistic evolutionary models. The new release includes a comprehensive manual, worked examples and supporting technical information.
Has been used in industry (Quintiles pharmaceutical consultancy, working for Astra Zeneca)
Software used to produce results from a paper under preparation (revision invited) for Statistics in Medicine, &quot;State selection in Markov models for panel data with application to psoriatic arthritis&quot; by Howard Thom et al.
An outstanding feature of our approach is that the control techniques we are developing are solely based on input-output data readouts from the network, with the goal to provide optimal and robust operation of potentially poorly characterised or unknown networks. We call such an approach data-based optimal control as opposed to more classical model-based approaches. Data-based methods aim to infer/learn a feedback optimal control law from input-output data collected from the system, i.e., from the way the output of the system reacts to various perturbations at the input of the system.
Fairphone customers have been using the tool: http://designaday.fairphone-open.com
PyOP2 is primarily used as a component of Firedrake. Firedrake has a growing community of users, evidenced to some extent by the papers listed at http://firedrakeproject.org/publications.html. PyOP2 is a separate conceptual abstraction which is potentially usable independently.
This software makes the essential CTF correction step of cryo-EM dataprocessing around 1000 times faster and therefore reduces the time the LMB cluster is used for this processing step.
Feeding into learning design at the OU and into CPD for teachers across Beds, Bucks and Herts (with a view to extend this).
The software has been adopted by several research teams around the world for this data analysis, and several publications have appeared using data treated by this program.
TemPSS makes use of the concepts of software parameter templates and application profiles. Templates represent the parameter decision space of an application while profiles provide instantiations of a template with parameters specific to a particular job or task to be accomplished with the target application. Significantly, TemPSS allows the creation of partial profiles - incomplete sets of parameters - and supports collaboration between different entities who can each partially instantiate a profile with the parameters that they understand how to specify optimally. An end-user can then be presented with an almost complete profile that they can finalise to run the target application.
Used as part of the ongoing SICSA Multicore Challenge.
the paper has had so far 58 reads in Research Gate
so far there was 1 download of the codes and 38 reads in Research Gate
This platform allows na easy access to researchers from Climate, Health and Enviromental Services institutions, as well as decision-makers both at the Acre Government but also at the Ministry of the Environment Climate Change Secretary. The type of quick visualisation of climate change implications in particular states of Brazil, in specific seasons of the year is a key support tool to craete the underpinning understanding of climate change for Brazil in the long-term.
At present this is a demonstrator, though has the potential for further deployment in collaboration with external partners as part of a follow on grant.
The tool has been published in a workshop for now (CIMA-14 Workshop, 4th International Workshop on Combinations of Intelligent Methods and Applications). We plan to present it to several possible interested parties. It can be assessed with login housei, password housei, with i=1,...,4
This compressive sensing approach means that we can acquire useful tomographic data sets with as few as ~30 projections (where 100's of projections would be required for fully sampled reconstructions using filtered back projection). This essentially makes multispectral OPT of live zebrafish possible, since it reduces the time spent under anaesthetic and the light dose to the sample.
The software is hosted on the ESA (European Space Agency) website and available as a training or research tool.
The demonstrator is developed continuously throughout the project. Several publications were based on this demonstrator and it is a very helpful tool when explaining the research to industrial contacts (e.g., DEMOfest 2013 (Glasgow), DEMOfest 2014 (Aberdeen, Edinburgh) and meetings with Schlumberger).
BOSCORF staff took a lead role working with US software developers to adapt Corewall to handle and display very high-resolution data such as that generated by the ITRAX XRF core scanner. This allows ITRAX XRF data to be integrated with physical property and colour data acquired by other instruments, providing scientists for the first time with a means to assemble and visualise complete core datasets, including high-resolution geochemistry.
to early to say at the moment
Application of prediction of genetic variants in proteins.
Programmes can be used by other researchers
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
This output formed part of The Creative Exchange, a broad programme of activities with notable impact in multiple areas. For full details please see The Creative Exchange final report, available online here: http://thecreativeexchange.org/reports/CX_Final_Report.pdf
2 journal papers currently being finished about this content
emotionsense was downloaded more than 3000 times.
Enables faster and more meaningful analyses of data exports characterising participants' usage of digital health interventions. Insights gained from the visual analysis can be used to inform subsequent statistical analyses where appropriate. Vital for making sense of how participants have used an intervention over time to inform subsequent improvements to the intervention design/content and/or interpret health outcome data/self-reported engagement.
The PPL was originally released in 2001.
Increasingly widely used in neuroimaging studies.
publications and usage in the research field
Schema is available for re-use, the team have invited comments and feedback.
No notable impacts to report yet
This workflow is linked to Metabolights which is a database for Metabolomics experiments and derived information developed by EMBL-EBI.
This will impact many studies by the UK modelling community, saving CPU cycles and therefore money on the ARCHER national HPC service, and moving some calculations which were not previously possible into the realm of feasibility.
This software is used for modelling of care pathways by our researchers. We have already modelled part of COPD and Osteoarthritis. We will use the software to evaluate out methods.
Since the release of the first version of Longbow, there have been just over 400 verified unique downloads between the HECBioSim download repository and the Python PyPi index. The active user-base includes users from both academic (21 different institutions in the UK) and the industrial sector globally.

Longbow has also been or is currently being incorporated into software pipelines of other groups/consortia, projects of notable progress include integrating with FLEX-EM a powerful tool developed by CCP-EM and FESetup developed by CCPBioSim. The Longbow project led to a collaboration with pharmaceutical company UCB into integration of Longbow into their workflow, this also led to a feasibility study into the construction of a similar tool for commercial cloud services such as Amazon EC2 or Microsoft Azure.
This tool has proved to be quite popular amongst the academic community, feedback from members of the community has been very positive for this tool with requests to expand to more codes being quite common. The tool has helped groups that do not have a traditional background in HPC to make sense of the often quite daunting application process for super computing time. Usage statistics from this tool suggest it has been utilised by 1,343 unique IP addresses globally and that users are likely to be making use of this tool for systems that are very similar to ARCHER.
The HECBioSim portal has been heavily utilised by a very broad spectrum of users. Since the website was installed in 2014 we have had just over 213,000 hits by 67,869 unique IP addresses. Users are making heavy use of the ARCHER application form, guidance material and the kAU calculator tool, suggesting that users are finding these tools helpful over the old word document by email application process. Other sections of the website seeing heavy use are the software download and the documentation repositories.
The ability to model the capsule implosion experiments driven by laser or X-ray radiation ablation. The accurate treatment of the pressure and specific heat capacity of materials in the solid phase are essential in order to accurately reproduce the behavior of shock compression of materials during the early phases of compression. This process is important for maintaining a low temperature adiabat during spherical compression in inertial confinement fusion.
Used to create stimuli for all experiments as part of this project.
Wide coverage on media (Daily Mail, Telegraph, Independent etc) online portals, resulting in over 1 million visitors and 3 million searches carried out, and nearly 100000 feedback votes.
Nothing to report.
This software is widely used by many research groups
Currently used in the design of Facebook's Aquila solar-powered aircraft.

Currently used in the design of Airbus's Zephyr solar-powered aircraft.
Impacts are pending.
This will be the first software tool for the whole CAES system dynamic modelling and simulation.
user interest after presentations and tutorials.
This mesh geometry control is fundamental for the study of complex systems, and may be applied in different contexts than the exhaust system used to define it. This technique can also be used on a range of different &quot;systems&quot;, for example it can also be used for automatically defining human anthropometry on complex human computer models, in a different branch of research a Coventry University.
Increased reputation of ORCHID project.
Development of Physics Modules for Simpleware - +SOLID, +FLOW and +LAPLACE - implementation in Simpleware software commercial release.
Insight into the time-varying modal structure of both linear and nonlinear flows. Has been applied across a broad range of flows in the laboratory.
Between October 2009 and December 2012, abYsis was accessed &amp;gt;360,000 times by nearly 8,000 users representing an average of &amp;gt;9,200 visits per month from &amp;gt;200 distinct users. Commercial users of the online Abysis include: Abbott, AbGenomics, Adimab, Agilent, Akamai Technologies, Alderbio, Algonomics, Amgen, Artes Biotechnology, Bayer, Biofocus, Biogen-Idec, Biosyn, Bioventix, Biovitrum, Cambridge Antibody Technology, Celldex Therapeutics, Domantis, Eleven Bio, Eurogentec, Facet Biotech, Genetex, Glenmark Pharma, Immunobiosciences, Immunocore, Isogenica, Lilly, Medigene, Medix Biochemica, medtronic, Momenta Pharma, Morphosys, Morphotek, Novartis, Organon, Promega, Qilu, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, Sembiosys, Symphogen, Syntaxin, Vista Biologicals, and Xoma.

Abysis has also been released under a commercial license since the end of 2009 (and abYsis2 since 2014) through UCL Business for in-house use by commercial customers. It has been purchased by companies ranging from small biotechs to large pharma for use in their antibody therapeutic development pipelines and has grossed &amp;gt;&pound;180,000 of sales on annual licences [b]. There are currently 10 commercial users who have had company installations of Abysis all of who have purchased annual licences, most of which have renewed each year. They use it
to store their in-house sequence data and compare it with public data. This enables them to identify unusual features of their sequences and to improve strategies for humanisation. Pfizer have stated that &quot;the ability to use [the software] to search large, well annotated databases of antibody sequences and to accurately annotate or otherwise analyse new proprietary sequences that Pfizer develops over time, is important to Pfizer&quot;. UCB have said &quot;Abysis is a tool that brings external information into a more digestable form, this has the following effects for us internally, generally it is about better informed processes, through delivering public information into the value chain, the main area of support is in the decision making around antibody engineering&quot;.
The Grassroots API powers the public BLAST service that runs at TGAC, predominantly for the currently available wheat assemblies including the recently released TGAC v1 w2rap assembly (in preparation). We have served over 4000 unique users with over 6000 BLAST jobs since November 2015.

It also underpins the Field Pathgenomics project (BBSRC IPA award 2015, PI - Saunders D., TGAC/JIC fellow), a web portal that represents the detection and subsequent phenotyping and genotyping of the wheat yellow rust pathogen. The site aims to enable researchers and breeders to track rust epidemics over variety and time, allowing for a more proactive approach to wheat crop breeding and farming.

Finally, we are working with the CerealsDB group at Univ. Bristol to deploy the Grassroots infrastructure alongside the CerealsDB web portal, allowing a federation of searching, datasets, analysis and dissemination of markers, genotypes and associated feature and literature information.
It allowed simultaneous collections of multiple questions which allow not only to estimate the emotional expression in music using a large array of mood terms, but the communication accuracy of such mapping, since one of the tasks involved in asking participants to assess other people example tracks in terms of moods and activities.
Wider dissemination of the project
We're currently in the process of further developing the software to test with users.
GrowthGrids speeds up the process of data plotting for inexperienced users that have growth data for arrayed sets of mutants or strains.
CASINO has now been run on (US) machines with almost a million processors. No other electronic structure method applicable to real materials can match this as far as we know.
Since its release in January 2012, researchers from around the world have used the sRNA workbench extensively. Our website has had over 30,000 visits from over 16,000 visitors who have collectively downloaded the workbench more than 9,000 times. To cater for this user base and to maximise impact on the sRNA community, we track workbench usage and employ a variety of social media including, Twitter, RSS delivery of direct comments on the website, and emails to communicate with users.

The sRNA workbench has also been utilised as a resource for various teaching activities. For example, teaching sessions have been designed to bring bioinformatics to biology students, specifically for the teaching of measurement and analysis of miRNAs using next generation sequencing technologies. To date, four sessions have been completed with between 14 and 20 students in attendance at various institutions in the UK (each session being fully booked), yielding excellent feedback. We have also collaborated closely with the bioinformatics team at the BBSRC Genome Analysis Centre (TGAC) to develop a public 2-day microRNA workshop that will include tuition on using the tools within the workbench (http://www.tgac.ac.uk/361_Division/training-programme/courses-workshops/tgac-events/microrna-workshop-2016/).

In addition to training sessions, the workbench website contains several downloadable videos and tutorials that show users how to use the individual tools within the sRNA workbench. In this way, we will promote use of the network tool through a medium that has a wide and diverse audience, in order to address the need for bioinformatics tools and training for the next generation of biological researchers. As the sRNA workbench has been specifically designed to be easy to maintain and extend, it is also possible for the future development of new network features to be driven by short-term projects. In particular, PhD projects lead to the development of new tools required by the community that are integrated into workbench. Such projects facilitate training of PhD students in the process of developing and promoting cutting-edge research to a broad user base in the increasingly important area of bioinformatics.
There are a number of commercial users for this system, and we ran a free trial attracting 230 new users.
Although not originally part of the project plan, it became apparent to the project group that there was a need to train alta mentors/mentees in mentoring to both 'quality control' mentoring (i.e. ensure alta mentors were fully trained in mentoring) and to ensure mentees understood what was involved in working with a mentor and their obligations as part of this. The project team worked with the design team to produce four core on-line training modules, to film mentoring rehearsals and to set questions at the end of each module to ensure key learning had been met. This will have a notable impact upon both the quality of the alta mentor, who will be fully trained before she begins mentoring, irrespective of her seniority and experience in the industry; and fully prepare mentees for the mentoring experience. The women who attended the face-to-face training offered by the UWE team do not have to repeat the on-line training but we recommend alta members return to the on-line training from time to time to refresh their knowledge and skills.
The impact of GAP could be tracked, for example, by its citations, which could be found in several places:
* GAP bibliography: http://www.gap-system.org/Doc/Bib/bib.html
* swMATH: http://www.swmath.org/software/320
* Google Scholar: http://bit.ly/gap_citations
The impact of GAP could be tracked, for example, by its citations, which could be found in several places:
* GAP bibliography: http://www.gap-system.org/Doc/Bib/bib.html
* swMATH: http://www.swmath.org/software/320
* Google Scholar: http://bit.ly/gap_citations
The impact of GAP could be tracked, for example, by its citations, which could be found in several places:
* GAP bibliography: http://www.gap-system.org/Doc/Bib/bib.html
* swMATH: http://www.swmath.org/software/320
* Google Scholar: http://bit.ly/gap_citations
Currently under development - undergoing testing prior to launch in the field as an auto-ethnographic tool to support the Precarious Trajectories project.

Co-developed with Winkball Ltd and Goldsmiths, University of London.
The software has been applied to a variety of health-related datasets and problems, including: (i) analysing the effect of occupational exposure to organic solvents on lung cancer risk [2]; (ii) determining multi-pollutant exposure profiles associated with term low birth weight [3]; (iii) analysing the health effects of simultaneous exposure to physical and chemical properties of airborne particles [4]; and (iv) analysing blood pressure differences associated with ideal versus actual diets [5]. 

[1] Liverani, S., Hastie, D. I., Azizi, L., Papathomas, M., &amp; Richardson, S. (2015). PReMiuM: An R Package for Profile Regression Mixture Models Using Dirichlet Processes. Journal of Statistical Software, 64(7).10.18637/jss.v064.i07
[2] Mattei, F., Liverani, S., Guida, F., Matrat, M., Cen&eacute;e, S., Azizi, L., et al. (2016). Multidimensional analysis of the effect of occupational exposure to organic solvents on lung cancer risk: the ICARE study. Occupational and Environmental Medicine.10.1136/oemed-2015-103177
[3] Coker, E., Liverani, S., Ghosh, J. K., Jerrett, M., Beckerman, B., Li, A., et al. (2016). Multi-pollutant exposure profiles associated with term low birth weight in Los Angeles County. Environment International, 91, 1-13.10.1016/j.envint.2016.02.011
[4] Pirani, M., Best, N., Blangiardo, M., Liverani, S., Atkinson, R. W., &amp; Fuller, G. W. (2015). Analysing the health effects of simultaneous exposure to physical and chemical properties of airborne particles.10.1016/j.envint.2015.02.010
[5] Molitor, J., Brown, I. J., Chan, Q., Papathomas, M., Liverani, S., Molitor, N., et al. (2014). Blood pressure differences associated with Optimal Macronutrient Intake Trial for Heart Health (OMNIHEART)-like diet compared with a typical American Diet. Hypertension, 64(6), 1198-1204. 10.1161/HYPERTENSIONAHA.114.03799
R2HESS has been successful used as the key discovery tool in a system genetics approach to uncover the genetic regulations of human temporal lobe epilepsy (doi:10.1038/ncomms7031).
The software helped identify several potentially novel protein markers of breast cancer survival[1]. It is also currently being used to help fine-map several genes associated with prostate cancer in collaboration with the ICR (Sutton), and to explore metabolites associated with type 2 diabetes, in collaboration with the MRC Epidemiology unit (Cambridge).

[1] Newcombe, P. J., Ali, H. R., Blows, F. M., Provenzano, E., Pharaoh, P. D., Caldas, C. &amp; Richardson, S. Weibull regression with Bayesian variable selection to identify prognostic tumour markers of breast cancer survival. Stat. Methods Med. Res. DOI: 10.1177/0962280214548748 (2014). dos:10.1177/0962280214548748
This software provides a tool to evaluate interferometer baseline distributions, and can be used within SKA-SDP for the development of algorithms such as gridding.
The tool has made possible the use of large-scale supervised classification approaches based on full-text analysis, which was previously challenging when using archival web crawl data. It also substantially reduces the storage cost of the datasets processed.
The software has been used (by Dr Merrison-Hort) to develop a model of the mammalian basal ganglia as part of his PhD work (not based on any funding body award). The results obtained from this model were published in Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience.
Building on the implementation it is much easier to formalise and implement other auction schemas.
LATAX is a multi-country flexible tax micro-simulation model developed by researchers from the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) for the analysis of VAT, excise duties, income tax and social security contributions, as well as (non means-tested) price subsidies. It is designed to be a simple public tool for micro-analyses of future or counterfactual tax reforms in Mexico, El Salvador, and potentially other countries. LATAX can quantify the revenue and distributional impact of tax reforms under both the assumption that individuals do not change their behavior as a consequence of changes in taxes, and the assumption that individuals react to these changes along specific margins.
Basic methods to compute required sample sizes are well understood and supported by widely available software. However, the sophistication of the methods commonly used has not kept pace with the complexity of commonly employed experimental designs. We compile available methods for sample size calculations for continuous and binary outcomes with and without covariates, for both clustered and non-clustered RCTs. Formulae for both panel data and unbalanced designs are provided. Extensions include methods to: (1) optimise the sample when costs constraints are binding, (2) compute the power of a complex design by simulation, and (3) adjust calculations for multiple testing
The App provides the same information as the CROPROTECT website and empowers users with better access to relevant information about crop protection.
Too early to say
Too early to say
Too early to say
The system provides 3 key elements:
1) A timeline which provides instinctive chronological flexibility consisting of multiple arrays of time-scales - days, hours and minutes. The user can expand or contract the timeline allowing the user to manipulate the volume of displayed documents. 
2) A zooming functionality, created by fixing a camera to the 2D x-plane in the 3D environment, facilitates user controlled data convergence. This allows users to zoom in and out of the Z-axis which changes the distance of the camera plane in relation to the displayed objects. The user can control the amount of documents currently on display by the system. Furthermore, it allows the user to focus on clusters of documents that may be of particular interest.
3) The visualisation of information through inter-document relationships. The system database contains a vast range of data which is used by the system to create arrays of objects which have underlying connections. These relationships are used to generate the default GUI. The goal of exploiting the underlying relationships is to allow the user to quickly retrieve information based on whatever knowledge they have relating to the search.
The algorithm is at the heart of the 'smart technology' on which Tempus Energy's business model is based. So far Tempus Energy has raised over &pound;5 million in venture capital and grant funding.
Not known yet.
Opened the 2013 Brighton Digital Festival. Led to successful commission between Welsh National Opera and Arts Council/BBC through the &quot;The Space&quot; programme.
The tool as just made available to the research community through GitHub.
The tool as just made available to the research community through GitHub.
-
- Library incorporated into software ACADO Toolkit (http://acado.github.io/)
- Library used in CRONOS (https://bitbucket.org/omegasoftware/cronos)
Based on the feedback from 20 participants (4 parents (Phase one), 8 child-parent groupings (Phase two)), the findings positively support the potential utility of LifePal, however, highlight the importance of delivering sufficient user training to support adoption and the need for longitudinal evaluations.

Among the most highly rated features were both life-logging and the rewards service which included the facility to generate a personalised contract between the parent and child. Another interesting observation was that younger users found the App easy to use while parents reported a learning curve associated with the web portal. In terms of qualitative feedback, parents praised the concepts of the platform, high-lighting the advantages of delivering services via technology in comparison with paper-based approaches. They also indicated that LifePal added structure to their child's day, allowing them to know what lay ahead and provided them with a safe space to life-log in a non-verbal way.
The Mouse Atlas user interfaces to browse and visualised the embryo models now include a 3D visualisation linked to the section viewer. This has increased the usefulness, aids understanding of the complex embryo anatomy and has led to a further demand on the web resource.
The tool is still in alpha. Notable impacts are expected somewhat later.
There are no impacts as yet.
The software is new, but has already been used by 10 final year undergraduates in their projects.
The tool won as the most efficient theorem prover at the SL-COMP demonstration for reasoning about programs manipulating linked lists in memory.
Only released in June 2015
Provides important resources for developing and testing natural language software for evaluating grammaticality/syntactic well-formedness
Improved analysis of arteriole measurements in pressure myography studies.
Paper and software were published in PLoSONE (see publications list) and has been downloaded over 2000 times as of Feb 2016.
Impressive 3D simulations were analysed which led to the publication of several papers and the delivery of several presentations
Work in progress
There were 322 registrations to Systems-NET through this website and various other registrations to Systems-NET events.
ClimaScope won the work bank Large Organisation Recognition Award for Apps for Climate. ClimaScope was developed by Dr Jeff Price at Tyndall Centre using data provided from my project.
Many user-interface cleanups and improvements.
New in-browser help system.
Thresholding and leaping for quantitative tracks (currently bigwig only).
Improved SVG export.
New backends: JBrowse-style and Ensembl REST interfaces
Improved interface between the browser and backends.
Scatter plot views (POINTS glyph in stylesheets).
Preliminary support for UCSC-style track hubs.
Feature-info plugins.
This tool is yet to complete its final stages of testing, but once released, it is likely have a wide-ranging impact for those working in corpus linguistics, primarily because it is extremely useful for working with large, detailed datasets typical of the online environment.
A number of downloads worldwide
It has been downloaded but no citations as of yet.
We cannot track exact user statistics of BEM++ since it is freely available from an open source repository. But it is currently being used by several external research groups.
Since this software provides the services offered by the EMG programme, all impacts associated with the programme as a whole (see elsewhere in the outcome reporting) are also associated with the software infrastructure.
Used in undergraduate courses at universities in the US and EU.
The methodology has allowed us to test and maximise the reliability of predictions made from molecular dynamics simulations, and is now a standard protocol applied and discussed in all our MD-realted publications.
Used by at least 700 different authenticated users between April and October 2014.
None as yet.
None as yet.
The apps will be launched on the 27th of November 2014. We expect at least 1000 active users who will feed in further content.
This proposed work is extremely relevant to this call under the Digital Economy theme. Food is of
key importance in a sustainable society. Plant diseases are a major foe to global food security,
which have the potential to significantly decrease crop yields and increase postharvest losses,
especially in the face of climate change. Disease prevention and management are essential for the
sustainability of our society. This project aims to develop a software tool to effectively detect crop
diseases, reduce yield losses, improve food security and therefore achieve sustainability.
The software has been used widely within the University of Edinburgh, and our algorithms were incorporated into the original GCTA software that we started from. The GCTA is widely used since it was the original.
Provision of evidence-based information to parents and health professionals
Utilised in the Horizon Majority Report project: Citizen Empowerment through Collaborative Sensemaking. Paper published in the Proceedings of the 11th International ISCRAM Conference http://www.iscramlive.org/ISCRAM2014/papers/p163.pdf
.
Used as a platform for creating the Blast Theory's Riderspoke where Cyclists explore the city at night recording stories about their lives and listening to other people's. Rider Spoke was first shown at the Barbican in London in October 2007 and has since been presented in Athens, Brighton, Budapest, Sydney and Adelaide.
Presentation at PERCOM 2014: http://www.cs.nott.ac.uk/~gss/mobility.php
Taarifa was voted the winning 'hack' at the Random Hacks of Kindness London Water Hackathon 2011. Designed by Mark Iliffe it is currently deployed with the Ugandan Ministry of Local Government for monitoring community funded projects in a pilot across four districts.The Taarifa Open Source Project Community is now growing with 20 developers and humanitarian experts contributing in the UK, Germany, USA and other countries worldwide.
The software was developed in conjunction with the Tate gallery and is live on the Tate website and has been used for a number of public engagement events.
tbc
None yet.
Enables LS research, leading to the outputs listed here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/celsius/research-outputs
The software has been released 19/Feb/2016.
This tool enabled researchers interested in big-brain post-mortem imaging to study structural connectivity at very high resolution with a high-SNR technique.
The CMEMS products are funded by the European Commission and provide a free-at-point-of-delivery service for monitoring and forecasting the marine environment. The products are widely used across the public and private sectors to support policy, marine management, infrastructure planning, and operations. 

The techniques have identified both the strengths and some technical and scientific weaknesses in the current products (documented in Wakelin et al 2015), providing a target for future improvements to the system, including the underlying ERSEM model which is being developed in the NRC SSB programme.
Information that would only be available on an instantaneous basis is securely and reliably forwarded, stored and accessed. Parameters, such as communications rate, current and voltage gain and current wiring configuration, that could only be changed by modification of energy monitor firmware and re-installation of these devices can now be performed remotely while machines are running.
Supports optimal process scheduling to reduce total plant consumption and energy, reduce waste and avoid excess usage charges. Enables reduction in the amount of data which must be captured, stored and forwarded in order to monitor the energy consumption of a high power machine.
Reduced infrastructure impact and cost of equipment through the use of sensor nodes to range and trilaterate location, in comparison to approaches using RFID tags (distributed tags and readers robustly supported and maintained throughout the environment); WiFi and Ultra Wide Band (requires complex and costly infrastructure of cables and nodes).
Published in the proceedings of the International Conference on Computer Aided Verification (CAV 2013).
The associated paper was published in the proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering (ICSE 2012).
Used in several research projects.
OOPSLA 2012 paper
Over 100 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
Over 300 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort. This cohort also included the first pilot group of 35 researchers from leading UK bioscience companies.
Over 250 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
Over 300 research bioscientists at all levels of career seniority - largely from the UK and largely from the BBSRC community began in this cohort.
iPhone and iPad application co-designed by and for disabled musicians, released on the app store for free.
The two-phase flow dynamics and the droplet break-up process were simulated by solving the Stokes equations (Momentum and mass conservation) and the Level set equation through the Comsol microfluidics module. The outcome of the numerical simulations in terms of droplet size and generation frequency were qualitatively in good agreement with the experimental results.
The extended BioMart allows for more powerful querying to identify sets of genes over many species matching common search parameters. WormBase ParaSite had a total of 19,247 unique visitors (measured by IP address) in 2015.
Oracle Research Labs have adopted many of the techniques internally for their big data applications.
Not available yet.
none known
The National Grid operator now have instantaneous access to magnetic field data and estimates of GIC at each of the 700 nodes in their distribution network. This can tell them if they are experiencing difficulty or technical issues at their transformers due to space weather
This software provides enabling technology for high-level parallel programming, and was the basis for the measurements of challenging parallel symbolic applications on the HECToR super-computer.
This software reflects the outcomes of the PhD Thesis &quot;Reliable Massively Parallel Symbolic Computing Fault Tolerance for a Distributed Haskell&quot; by Rob Stewart, Heriot-Watt University, November 2013.
Has already been used in several publications.
--
Featured/mentioned in NRS website.
Potential relevance for corresponding sub-pixel cloud characterisation for Sentinels-4 &amp; 5 missions has resulted in invitations to join consortia to develop those prototype processors for ESA
None yet known
None yet known
None yet known
We use this software as the base for a further funding application (2016 Hydro Nation Scholarship programme).
None yet realised
None yet known
None yet known
no impact yet
Professional practice - allows young people to capture and attach further digital value to the things they produce using woodland materials
Paper publication Nguyen et al. (2015) DOI:10.1007/978-3-319-15615-6_10
Believed to be the only simple, adaptive approach.
The tool, which is under continuous development, has become quite widely used within the chemical reaction network theory (CRNT) community. Development has also been opened up to the wider community and modules have subsequently been added by researchers not originally part of the development team. The goal is both to allow new results which naturally take algorithmic forms to be made widely available, and to provide an open source alternative to some of the closed source CRN analysis software currently available. We expect long term impact to be significant.
For the creation of the Human protein complexes repository (http://human.med.utoronto.ca/) the standalone version of ClusterONE was used to produce the putative protein complexes. This project provided the largest catalogue to date of human protein complexes from cell culture. 

All versions of the ClusterONE Cytoscape plugin have been downloaded a total of 4801 times, with 5 releases produced so far. The ClusterONE publication has in excess 130 citations.
None yet known
Uptake by commercial and academic parties
We have completed the first phase. All data associated with a sample is now attached on a miniature paper form to the test. This simple, but highly usual step, means that parallel systems for tests and forms are eliminated. For example, 500 TB diagnostic cultures in our incubators are no longer associated with 500 paper forms in folders that have to be found, cross-checked and updated several times each week for 6 weeks. Rather, all data is now attached to the ongoing culture in the incubator, and can be updated in a moment each time the culture is checked. Although this sounds simple, it is highly unusual or unique in TB laboratories and relies upon the second innovation, that these potentially contaminated, potentially infectious forms are then digitally photographers that the digital image is digitised, without exposing administrative staff to any infection risk. These simple innovations have remarkably increased efficiency and increased capacity to provide research diagnostic information for more participants.

The current second phase is developing a flexible, simple, open access 'freeware' tablet computer system for replacing the paper forms. We have obtained independent research funding for this venture ($20,000 USD) and this is in progress with collaborators in NAMRU-6.
The app has been downloaded and played approximately 2000 times (via a combination of Goole Play and Apple app stores)
Not yet used in the domain but led to interest from industry and connection with other research groups to further advance it.
Early thus far, but press coverage about the code release and research project:

http://www.theregister.co.uk/2014/10/07/boffins_build_cowl_web_privacy_system_to_cut_malware_off_at_the_knees/
http://www.engadget.com/2014/10/06/cowl-web-privacy/
http://www.networkworld.com/article/2691741/microsoft-subnet/researchers-unveil-cowl-a-new-system-to-protect-surfers-privacy.html
School pupils and teachers gain an understanding of how much and where energy is being used in their school over a week. Data allows comparison between school days, and subject areas. This is supported by teaching material that encourages further discovery and discussion around the value of energy.

The app will be rolled out to 20 schools in Edinburgh as part of an energy awareness campaign.
Software has been used on research cruise campaigns
Requests for the software. Positive reception in software community forum at Cycling 74 (http://cycling74.com/toolbox/maes-manual-actions-expressive-system-3/)
The new developments have enhanced the Apache Solr functionality that was deemed essential for the improvements in the services provided by the SPOT and PDBe teams. The code is also evaluated by the NCBI teams in the USA.
MetaboAnalyst has been modified to run on the EMBL-EBI R-cloud and has been included in MetaboLights as part of ongoing integration of analysis tools into MetaboLights LABS. 
The MetaboLights team has modified the backend (handling of R-pacakges/sniplets) to run on our extensive R-Cloud. Standard MetaboAnalyst runs on a single R-serve instance, so we added the ability to run in a distributed environment.

In a recent survey we conducted, MetaboAnalyst was the most used metabolomics analysis tool amongst the respondents.
Not known.
AccessibleSpectrumAnalyser is a real time spectrum analysis plug-in that allows visual impaired users to inspect spectrograms using the same sonification as the accessible peak meter. Instead of monitoring the amplitude of the audio signal though, you will be monitoring the frequency components of the signal within a customizable selection of frequencies.
From a commercial perspective, the app provides a slick demonstrator for potential investors without the overhead of digging deep into mobile platforms. The app was presented during Queen Mary University of London's School of Elec. Eng. and Computer Sc. Research Showcase (3 April 2014) which attracted a lot of visitors including many industrials. The app raised the interest of our partners Omniphone and Abbey Road Studios we collaborate with on research projects. We demonstrated the app to Rocket Music, a company founded by Elton John, and are currently in discussion with them to create a new digital music product.
From a pedagogical perspective, the SoundBite app represents a useful way to introduce UG and PG students to some of the Music Information Retrieval technologies developed by Queen Mary University of London.
No notable impact yet. However, our work on MPEG-A: Interactive Music Application Format (IM AF) has inspired not only commercial products such as STEMS by Native Instruments but also artists such as Emilio Molina Mart&iacute;nez (ES), Tracy Redhead (AU) &amp; Imogen Heap (UK) releasing raw music material (i.e., multi-track audio, lyrics, album cover and credits) suitable for IM AF encoding.
The paper has been cited by 30 researchers since 2012
None yet. Note that, since the associated paper is under anonymous submission, we cannot openly publish the URL of the tool except via application to the PI. This will change once the paper is accepted.
No actual Impacts realised to date
Has been adopted by the community.
The app can be downloaded for free from the Apple App Store
FabSim has been used in a range of journal publications in bloodflow modelling, clay-polymer modelling, and modelling of protein-ligand binding affinities.
Without this software, I could not have done the research on OpenCL acceleration of the Weather Research and Forecasting model (WRF), nor this year's OTG work on acceleration of a Large Eddy Simulator and model coupling with WRF
Specifically, the methods made available in the new software package have been used in numerous publications already as a beta version was introduced to the wider scientific community on the occasion of an international workshop at the Linnean Society, London, in 2014. More generally, the accurate documentation of temporal patterns of change in biological traits are of paramount importance to understanding the nature of the evolutionary process. By making available procedures to estimated evolutionary trajectories of biological traits and intuitively visualize such evolutionary change across a phylogenetic space, this software provides tools to help increase public scientific literacy on the understanding of the concept of evolution.
There have been no impacts as yet but we are interfacing this internal system with BODC as our NOC Delivery Partner NC data centre
None yet.
N/a
Enhances our ability t investigate optical properties of photonic nanostructures.
The very process of creating the website and soliciting input, helped bring people from different communities together to share their experiences and learn from each other. The website also helped learn about the use of social media, the opportunities and the challenges in their use.
Several international researchers are using VVV with their own corpora.
See also: 
http://tapor.ca/?id=477 (2014)
http://www.wired.co.uk/news/archive/2012-09/13/shakespeare-translation-comparison
The website has received 600,000 page views from over 200,000 unique users in 196 countries.
The related software has been shown in at least 5 public outreach presentations and my scientific conferences.
The related software has been used widely in schools and universities for educational purposes.
The project has appeared in at least 77 instances of media coverage.
The software has been used in at least 12 other software projects including being embedded in various websites.
The associated video is the second most watched press release video ever produced by Imperial College London
Versions of the software are being used commercially and in varied visualisation applications with a great deal more planned.
See http://www.onezoom.org/impact.htm for more details or refer to two impact statements submitted to NERC.
Further details can also be seen in an early career impact award application also submitted to NERC in 2014.
Has only just been published, but so far has been used by 99 devices. 10% of users have graded the software giving it a star rating of 4.7/5 I have not yet advertised the software, but will do after the latest update soon. The software is not open source but is free to download and use.
The app is freely available but only used to date by recruited participants.
None
None
Press citations, use in teaching in a wide variety of disciplines, extensive website hits. Use (and publicity) by the House of Commons Library.
The API makes all PDB and EMDB data as well as value added information from PISA, SIFTS and validation data available.
This training platform has undergone clinical trial and will be made publicly available in 2015.
None yet
We have used this software to analyse the data on the project grant, leading to new discoveries from the dataset.
&gt; 2000 users with signed up accounts and advanced talks with the industry regarding licensing of the software
Papers in prep.
-
None as yet. It will be released shortly.
Improved 'BGS Global Geomagnetic Model' used by the oil and gass sector for precision navigation
The SWB Capture and Comparison app was trialled in November/December 2014 with 18 participants. Commuters in the Loughborough area were invited to a study consisting of using the app for 2 weeks, filling questionnaires and giving interviews. This study provided a proof of concept and data for academic papers to be published in 2015.
Site users cite the comparison outputs to prove poor installation and get refund.
4 cases.
Reduction in uncertainty in national electricity demand -
The tool notifies the tester about outlying potential anomalous behaviours of an agent-based model.
The use o fEDC in the field will reduce data capture errors, and time to data entry. Data are also regularly available for study monitoring and interim analysis. We will work with our central trial support partners at MRC CTU, who will do database development and overall central trial data managements for the 4 sites.
Lead to publication of a mthods article as well as PoP letter 'Spontaneous toroidal flow generation due to negative effective momentum diffusivity', and to funded collaborations with experimental tokamak research groups via EURATOM.
As described in the following video lecture, presented in Lille (France), July 2015:
http://videolectures.net/icml2015_filippone_unbiased_linear_system/
The use of a standard infrastructure framework has saved costs and enabled rapid development of web tools and portals for specific user needs.
WaterWorld and Co$tingNature are widely used - more than 1000 organisations from 141 countries - so any developments in the software made available to these users have impacts on their use of them in fields from water security and water risk to land use management and conservation priority or ecosystem services assessment. For example the tools are used in natural capital acounting under the WAVES programme by the World Bank and partners.
It has already been used by two other large studies at the Surrey Clinical Research Centre, including BBSRC grant BB/I019405/1.
The Audio3D system will be used to simulate listening environments for hearing-impaired listeners and demonstrate the effects of novel spatial signal processing algorithms on the intelligibility of speech in noise.
The TeMMPo tool forms part of a protocol for systematic review of mechanistic studies developed by the University of Bristol with funding from the World Cancer Research Fund (WCRF), and will be used by the WCRF for their &quot;continuous update project&quot; which provides key summary data on risk factors for cancer.
Increased uptake of the methodology
-
Revolutionise access to spatial data in the field. Applicable to many different domains outside of geoscience.
Coastal Engineers are evaluating it for further funding
Catalyst Manufacturers are funding application of it
EPSRC has supported a follow-on Pathway to Impact project
No user-friendly tools are at the present available to straightforwardly extend association studies in related samples to large datasets of generic quantitative data, as those generated by current -omics technologies.
The software is already used by several collaborators and is an important tool for the analysis of data generated for the IgAN project eg glycomics IgA data.
